Welcome to Hell.

Okay, it’s not Hell, per se, if you’re expecting angels and demons, unless your angels and demons tend to wear capes and spandex. Oh, and you can still die, but only if you’re lucky. This is the world after Z-Day, where the dead started walking and eating everyone in sight.

You see, our world was once pretty normal. Those were the Glory Days. We had cities with gleaming skyscrapers, suburban sprawls, the internet, mobile phones, fast food, television channels for every niche, the works. We also had superheroes. You know the type, they patrolled the city streets to keep them free from crime and, more importantly, kept the world safe from supervillains. For the most part, the caped types tended to balance each other out; yin and yang, that sort of thing.

At the time, I was just a sidekick. My handle was Torch, and I used to pal around with Lady Liberty, if by “pal around” you mean get captured a lot and basically bask in her glory. I could handle myself against the more mundane criminals and, after a while, most of us low-powered types, whether sidekick, evil minion, or street-level superhero, coined ourselves the B-Listers. The A-Listers got headlines, special reports, and the occasional mini-series. We B-Listers were lucky to get more than a passing mention.

And then Z-Day hit. No one knows if it was a bomb, virus, alien influence, or what. All we know for sure is that one day, everyone in the city started turning into zombies. I don’t know if it was local or global at first; Lady Liberty ordered me to protect some bystanders as she joined the other A-Listers, superhero and super-villain alike, to stop it. Unfortunately, most of the A-Listers were destroyed or, worse, turned into what we call “Super Zombies.”

Since then, it’s been a struggle to survive and we B-Listers are left to carry the heavy load; I can’t remember the last time I saw an A-Lister that didn’t want to eat my face. Most bystanders now live in enclaves, small fortified communities where they hope to keep out the zombies while praying that a Super Zombie doesn’t find them.

Now before you sign up for duty, let me warn you about one more thing. There’s a reason why we still wear the masks and costumes. It’s more than just a fashion statement. If Lady Liberty were still here she’d tell you that our costumes are symbols for the bystanders to rally behind; our words and deeds carry more weight in them than out of them. Also, our costumes act as a beacon for Super Zombies. As much as we hate to face them, we’re better equipped to deal with them than the average bystander.

Of course, for those of us who’ve left idealism behind, there’s a more practical purpose to keeping on the costume. Whenever a zombie bites or scratches us, there’s a chance that we may be infected. There are only two known cures. One is amputation, which, as you might expect, is a pretty big disadvantage in this world. The second is burning; if we burn the infected area then there’s a chance we can escape becoming one of the flesh-eaters. The costume hides the burns.

So that’s the basic rundown; what do you say? Do you want to stand with us and hold back the darkness for one more day, or are you just out for yourself? In either case, this book contains everything you need to step into the world of life after Z-Day.

**\<Side Bar\>**

Zombie Code Authority  
Throughout this book you’ll see quotations from the ZCA, or Zombie Code Authority. This is practical advice for surviving in the zombie aftermath shared amongst B-Listers. They coined the “ZCA” as an homage to the Comics Code Authority, a self-censoring body that promoted certain standards in comic books. Feel free to ignore the ZCA advice at your peril.

**\</Side Bar\>**

# What is Rotted Capes? 

At its core, ***Rotted Capes*** is a roleplaying game of post-apocalyptic survival in a world overrun by zombies with a particular twist; this event has taken place in a typical superhero comic book world and the players take on the roles of superheroes struggling to protect what’s left of humanity.

The players aren’t portraying just any superheroes. Most of the greatest heroes, the “A-Listers,” were consumed during the initial zombie outbreak (called “Z-Day”), leaving their sidekicks, minions, and “street level” costumed heroes to carry the heavy lifting protecting the survivors. Today, these “B-Listers” are the only heroes that humanity has left.

As a B-Lister, you are normally expected to protect an enclave, a small group of humanity, from falling prey to the wandering zombie hordes. Other B-Listers serve with you as the enclave’s local super team, as well as the Deathwatch, normal people who’ve taken up arms to protect the enclave. In addition to keeping the “Bystanders” safe you also participate in “loot teams” to find supplies that the enclave so desperately needs.

The threats in this zombie apocalypse are many. In addition to the zombies, which always carry the risk of infection with them, there are super zombies, former superheroes that are now little more than psychopaths with a taste for human, and particularly superhero, flesh. Most of these creatures were formerly A-Listers, making them a potent, perhaps even an impossible, challenge for B-Lister teams. Catching sight of a super zombie usually means that it’s time to run, not step up and fight.

There are also threats that are all too human. Enclaves struggle with each other over diminishing resources. Powerful leaders impose their will on a frightened populace. B-Listers find themselves at odds with romantic rivals or unsettled accounts from the Glory Days. There’s a lot of conflict and drama to be had without ever leaving the enclave or sighting a zombie.

Most of all, ***Rotted Capes*** is what YOU make of it. If you want to play up the campiness of second-rate heroes in way over their head, then go for it! If you really want a game of gritty survival, where relatives are willing to leave a loved one behind so that the zombies take him instead of her, then you can certainly play it that way too.

**\<side bar\>**

Why not Three Genres?  
While ***Rotted Capes*** was conceived as a fusion of the four color superhero and zombie horror genre, an argument can be made that it’s really a fusion of three: four color superhero, zombie horror, and post-apocalypse. While this is certainly true without splitting hairs (otherwise we’d end up with several genres), we think that, in terms of inspiration for ***Rotted Capes***, zombie horror sufficiently covers the post-apocalyptic genre. At least two long-running film series originally started as relatively isolated incidents that blew up into full-blown apocalypses as the series went on. ***Night of the Living Dead*** (1968) begins an apocalypse that carries through two different sets of sequels. ***Resident Evil*** (2002) involves an infected corporation and by the second film the entire city is consumed followed by the world. As we expect most casual watchers of zombie movies are most familiar with these two series, it stands to reason that they’d tend to think of them in apocalyptic terms.

**\</side bar\>**

# A Mashing of Genres 

***Rotted Capes*** is a blending of two popular genres, the four-color superhero genre and the zombie survival genre. We’ve attempted to strike a balance between the two to create a setting that evokes the best parts of both and merges them into a fun, playable whole.

So how best can we strike the balance? In four-color superhero games, most heroes can rely on their powers; many of them, in fact, have an array of powers available to them. Your average hero may be armored, have the ability to project energy, is able to fly, and can see through walls. She doesn’t need skills or equipment because her powers can usually overcome any obstacle.

On the flip side, there are heroes that rely more on wits than power. Such heroes may only have one power that, while useful, leaves them humanly vulnerable in most other ways, leading them to train hard physically and design bulletproof costumes or equipment to aid them.

***Rotted Capes*** takes the latter approach by making all player-controlled heroes “B-Listers,” heroes that don’t have a vast array of powers. A B-Lister may have only one great power, a couple of lesser ones, or even none at all. She may be “always a sidekick, never a hero” or simply a budding hero at the dawning of her powers. Such heroes need to use their wits and skills to survive a zombie aftermath as much as, if not more so than, their powers.

Similarly, equipment is often important in zombie survival scenarios. If ten zombies are attacking you and you only have six bullets, you’re going to make sure that each bullet counts. Similarly, a hero in ***Rotted Capes*** can’t rely on her powers all of the time. Using powers is physically exhausting, and a hero risks collapse if she just throws energy bolt after energy bolt at every opportunity.

Another nod to the superhero genre is the idea that heroes can shrug off injuries and get a second wind. So long as a hero survives a scene, she can catch her breath and be back to full capacity in the next. The only exception to this is serious injury, known as Wounds, which must be healed normally.

However, this is also a game about zombie survival. Zombies are horrific creatures; they don’t feel pain, they don’t need to rest, and they can transmit their condition. Z-Day is about survival, and some people are more Darwinian than others. Just because you’re a B-Lister doesn’t necessarily make you a hero. You may only do ‘heroic’ acts because it’s convenient. You need fellow heroes and bystanders to help you survive. Even if you were a ‘boy scout’ superhero in the Glory Days, you may have succumbed to the harsh realities of the world as it is. Many bystanders are thrilled when a popular superhero joins their enclave, only to have that hero impose her will with an iron fist.

In another nod to zombie survival convention, the heroes aren’t protecting an archetypal “series city” against threats. Instead, they protect a hidden enclave of survivors. This enclave could be a bomb shelter, a remote country home, a boarded-up and reinforced warehouse, or even an old super-villain’ lair. The city has long been overrun and is useful only for scavenging.

Speaking of which, scavenging plays a very important role in ***Rotted Capes***. Part of protecting your enclave involves seeing to their needs. The Hero may be expected to accompany bystanders on food raids or salvaging old equipment. They may need to lure powerful Super Zombies away before they can destroy a caravan or wandering bystander.

Finally, heroes are survivors and have to make hard decisions. No matter how much a hero admired Super Commander in life, there are no prisons for Super Commander the Zombie. The hero has by necessity become a killer, protecting her enclave by destroying zombies that threatens it, bystander and hero alike.

**\<Side Bar\>**

## Striking the Balance 

While we’ve done our best to provide a fun game, we’re certain that there are Editor-in-Chiefs that may want to run the game with a different style. They may want the players to be more like A-Listers, dropping Burnout costs for powers and increasing the power ranks available, or they may want to more closely adhere to zombie survival, slowing Stamina recovery and putting a greater emphasis on enclave politics and survival rather than super-fights between B-Listers and Super Zombies. As always, it’s your call. Feel free to modify these rules as needed to create the post-apocalyptic setting that’s right for you and your group.

**\</Side Bar\>**

## The Spirit of the Rules: Narration over Simulation

There are two distinct styles of tabletop roleplaying: Narration play and Simulation play. Each style offers a unique approach to shaping the play experience. But, here, amid all the crunch and mechanics, we embrace the power of the narrative.

Think of the crunchy simulation mechanics as the games brain, and powerful narration mechanics as the games heart. It’s games narration that drives the game forward, from enclave events, personality flaws, and plot points there are several mechanics which poignantly bring the narration to the forefront. It’s not all about crunching numbers and winning battles, but in spinning a tale of heroism, sacrifice, and creating cool memorable moments.

Combat may feel familiar, but when we embrace the narration, it combats on a different flavor. And suddenly the doors are blown wide open, you’re not limited to how the scene was originally described, you as a player can help shape it. In the heat of battle, you will come up with ideas out of a box office thriller or from the pages of a comic. We allow you to bring those moments to your game, let those plot points fly!

The world of Rotted Capes heroes battle against imposable odds to protect small groups of survivors from the ever-present threat of being zombie chow. They face off against hordes of typical dead heads, twisted abominations, and super z’s. But this game is more than a clash of titans, but a world where the real focus is on the personal struggles, the growth of heroes, and the weight of their choices.

Its within plot points and personal flaw mechanics emerge as powerful tools of narration. Plot points allow the players to shape scenes and nudge the hand of fate, allowing for heroic feats and entertaining moments. Meanwhile, personal flaws lend depth to characters, enabling them to grapple with inner demons even as they confront the ruthless nature of the world they inhabit.

The goal is not simply to emerge victorious, but to breathe life into your tale. As in the comics, where heroes sometimes falter and fall before rising once more, here, the focus is on the drama and the emotional rollercoaster that takes players on a memorable ride.

So, whether you don the mantle of the Editor-In-Chief who shapes the narrative's course or step into the shoes of a heroic character with all their flaws and aspirations, remember that the essence of Rotted Capes lies in storytelling.

Let the narration & simulation work together, and together, these mechanics will forge unforgettable games which will live in your memory for years to come.

**\<Side Bar\>**

## A Glossary of Terms 

**A-Lister:** One of the major superheroes in the Glory Days; she probably had her own comic book and movie.

**B-Lister:** A low-powered superhero or villain, usually a minion or sidekick during the Glory Days.

**Big Box Village:** A cluster of large retail stores, often landscaped into a mini-village of sorts.

**Burn Victim:** Someone that was infected but cured through burning.

**Bystander:** Any character that is not a Hero, Villain, or Zombie.

**Clear Zone:** An area that’s declared zombie-free. A clear zone is usually temporary.

**CFB:** “Closed for Business.” An area that is determined to be free of lootable goods.

**Closing Sale:** An area that has been almost picked clean. It’s generally considered not worth the risk unless desperate.

**The Code:** An informal standard that all B-Listers follow, primarily to keep them heroic.

**Cruiser:** A boat that carries an enclave.

**Deathwatch:** A group within an enclave that is responsible for its security.

**Editor-in-Chief:** The Game Master responsible for running ***Rotted Capes*** for the other players.

**Enclave:** A group of Bystanders that work together for protection.

**Glory Days:** The time before Z-Day; roughly analogous to present-day Earth with superbeings.

**Grand Opening:** An area as yet un-scavenged.

**Graphic Novel:** A plot that takes several sessions to conclude, usually with a gritty approach.

**Hero:** The character being played by a player.

**Hotel:** Slang for a place occupied by an enclave. Some B-Listers give the Hotel a star rating (1-5) based on its comfort and protection.

**Issue:** A game session.

**Leech:** A Bystander that enjoys the benefits of an enclave while contributing nothing or little to it.

**Lich Lord:** The mythical first zombie (or super zombie). Possible cause of Z-Day.

**Lone Wolf:** A B-Lister or Bystander that prefers travelling alone to being part of an enclave.

**Loot:** Items salvaged or scavenged.

**Looter:** A salvager.

**Mini-Series:** A short series, sometimes within a greater series, that focuses on a story arc.

**Nest:** A dense zombie population

**OFB:** “Open for Business.” An area believed to have lootable items.

**Penthouse:** An enclave housed on the upper floors of skyscrapers.

**Personal Arc:** A B-Lister subplot that usually spans multiple issues.

**Plot:** A storyline with a distinct goal. A plot may be resolved within a single Issue or it may take several issues to complete. An overarching plot may take an entire series to resolve.

**Poacher:** A human that kills other humans, usually for supplies.

**Ronin:** A wandering B-Lister that doesn’t belong to an enclave but helps the living whenever she can.

**Sanctuary:** A possibly mythical place where the heroes can live free of zombie infestation. There may be multiple sanctuaries; there may be none.

**Scene:** One distinct encounter.

**Series:** A succession of issues following the same Heroes or plot elements.

**Story Arc:** A plot that spans several issues.

**Super Zombie:** A zombie with superpowers.

**Team:** A group of Heroes that work together.

**Ultra:** Someone whose opinion is important within an enclave or someone who believes herself important within an enclave.

**Z-Day:** The as-yet-unrevealed event that created the zombie threat.

**Zombie:** An undead, mindless creature that feasts on the living.

**Zombie Aftermath:** The world as it is now.

**\</Side Bar\>**

# What You Need to Play 

- Like most roleplaying games, Rotted Capes requires, beyond this rulebook, several items to play. Here are the things you’ll need:

- At least one other player, optimally four.

- One or two sets of polyhedral dice.

- Character sheets, either homemade, copied from the back of this book, or downloaded from Paradigm Concepts’ website.

- Pen and paper, either physical or electronic.

- A healthy dose of imagination.

While not required, here are some other things you may want on hand.

- Counters or miniatures to represent heroes, zombies, and bystanders.

- Appropriate background music drawn from both superhero and zombie movies

- Appropriate pictures of Heroes and Super Zombies.

# The Basics 

Before we get started, let’s make sure you understand the basics of surviving life after Z-Day. While you can get away with lively discussions when it’s just us heroes, the zombies aren’t much for talking. Eventually, you’re going need to rely on your abilities and that’s going require some dice rolls.

## What dice do I need?

A standard set of polyhedral dice, although we suggest you pick up more than one set; this is not a requirement, but it will make combat move a little quicker. Throughout the book we refer to dice by the letter d followed by the number of sides: d4, d6, d8, d10, d12, and d20. We suggest that you have at least two d20 and a few of each of the other die.

The rules will let you know when you are required to roll these dice and how many die you need to roll, as well as any modifiers to the die final result. If you are required to roll more than one die, the number will be noted before the d, so 2d10 would mean you need to roll two 10-sided dice. Any modifier to be applied to the roll will be noted after the dice size, as such a roll of 2d10+5 would mean rolling 2d10 and adding 5 to the result.

# Hero Traits

These traits define generally what your hero is capable of, how quick and strong they are, how well trained, and how well they can shake off things like mental possession.

## Ability Scores

These define your physical and mental capabilities, how strong you are, smart, quick, and so on. Ability Scores are broken down into six attributes. All creatures possess these ability scores; each score has a number that defines that ability's magnitude. An ability score is not just a measure of innate capabilities but also encompasses a creature's training and competence in activities related to that ability. A score of 10 or 11 is the normal human average, but heroes and villains are a cut above average in most abilities. A score of 18 is the highest that a person usually reaches, with some reaching Olympic levels of capability with scores as high as 20. Some heroes, such as super-humans, demigods, and androids, can reach theoretically unlimited potential beyond these limits. See page XX for more on Ability Scores.

- Strength – How strong you are, how much you can lift, how hard you punch

- Dexterity – How quick and agile you are, how fast you can run, and how quickly you react.

- Constitution – How hearty you are, how well you can shake off infection and toxins.

- Intelligence – How smart you are; how much you remember.

- Wisdom – How insightful and perceptive you are. Where intelligence is knowing things, wisdom is understanding implications and careful application of that knowledge.

- Charisma – the strength of your personality, how charming you are, and how you manipulate and inspire others.

**Ability Modifiers:** Ability score modifiers range from -1 (for an ability score of 1) to +20 (for a score of 50) and are derived from your Ability Score. To determine your ability modifier, subtract 10 from the ability score and divide the total by 2 (round down). You can also refer to the Ability & Power Score Table on pg XX. Ability Modifiers affect almost every d20 roll and come up in play more often than their associated scores.

## Origin and Archetype

Your Origin represents the source of your powers while your Archetype represents what you do with those powers. Maybe your Origin is that you’re an Alien from another dimension, a demi-god, or a super-human. While your Archetype maybe a brawler who likes to get into the thick of it? Or maybe you’re a controller using your abilities to control the weather or maybe the minds of others?

## Defenses 

Your defenses represent how difficult you are to target or affect whenever a hostile action targets you. All Attack Rolls are rolled against one of these three defenses. See page XX for more on Defenses and their use in combat see page XX.

- **Avoidance -** How hard you are to hit physically, in essence, how quick you are and how well you can read where the attack is coming from and know how best to avoid it.

- **Resilience –** Your ability to withstand poisons, toxins, and direct attacks upon your physiology.

- **Willpower –** Your ability to withstand mental control, attacks upon your psyche, effects that manipulate your behavior and sap your resolve.

### Wounds & Stamina

Are a measure of your overall physical resilience and how much punishment you can take before being knocked out or killed.

- **Stamina** is a measure of your physical endurance.

- **Wounds** are a measure of how much punishment you can take before the risk of death.

When you take damage in combat or from accidents such as falling, you lose Stamina. But when you suffer a grievous injury, you gain a Wound. While Stamina is quickly regained, wounds take time to heal. For more information on Wounds and Stamina, see page XX; for how they are used in combat, see page XX.

## Grit 

Grit is your ability to remain mentally focused, keeping your wits about you through even the most trying conditions. It also represents your ability to shake off things that would break the minds of an ordinary person, push through mental adversity and cope with demanding situations. You Grit bonus is added to all Saving Throws, most used when resisting the effects of psychosis and horror. However, Grit can also be used when you attempt to push yourself beyond your limits. Your Grit bonus is equal to your hero’s rank which may be further increased with feats and powers.

## Pace

Pace is the number of areas you can move during your action. Areas are an abstract measure of distance. An Area may be a room in a house, a hallway, and so on. Larger rooms and outdoor areas are divided into roughly 20'x20' foot Areas. For more on Pace, see page XX, and for its use in combat, see page XX. Note: if you are playing with maps that use 5’ squares, you can alternatively multiply a character’s pace by 4 for the number of squares they can move.

## Skills Sets

Skill Sets represent your hero’s background, training, and unique survivor experience — the sum of what they know and what they’ve practiced under fire. Do they know how to keep a generator running after years of neglect? Calm panicked civilians? Navigate collapsed urban landscapes?

Instead of tracking narrow individual skills, Rotted Capes uses broad, cinematic Skill Sets that encompass a thematic area of expertise. Each Skill Set can be creatively applied to various situations, provided the player justifies it and the Editor-in-Chief agrees. Skill Sets add your Rank Bonus to ability checks when they apply.

Skill Sets may also include Edges, sharp specialties within that set that grant even greater bonuses when a challenge aligns with your edge. When a Skill Set rarely comes into play but shines in just the right moment, especially when tied to your hero’s backstory, it triggers a Deep Cut Moment, granting advantage and earning you a Plot Point.

For more on Skill Sets, Edges, and how to use them to tell your hero’s story, see page XX.

## Powers

Powers, oh yes, powers. Powers are what sets most heroes apart from everyday bystanders. Powers possess a power score like your ability score ranging from 9 to 40+; This power score is used to determine your power modifier and dice used for damage rolls. **Power Modifications** are a collection of flaws and perks that allow you to customize your powers. These power modifications give a bonus or penalty to your final power score.

Additionally, once you have your powers, you can improve your proficiency with them in several ways. For example, you can increase your power score, learn an **emulated power** allowing you to duplicate another power albeit at a lower power score, or learn **power tricks** which are new ways to utilize the powers which you develop during play.

**Power Modifiers:** Power Score modifiers range from -0 to +20 are derived from your Power Score. To determine your power score modifier, subtract 10 from the power score and divide the total by 2 (round down). You can also refer to the Ability & Power Score Table on pg. XX.

## Burnout

In the dystopian setting of Rotted Capes, superheroes face a phenomenon known as Burnout. This sometimes occurs when one pushes their powers too far, causing their powers to simply shut down and stop working. Before Z’day burnout was not much of an issue but it has become much more prevalent since the apocalypse. The lack of advanced facilities to maintain equipment, inadequate nutrition, and the constant stress of surviving among zombies might contribute to this issue. Each power comes with a "**Burnout Cost**," and during any given scene, users must monitor their total Burnout. If they exceed their **Burnout Threshold**, they become progressively exhausted and face an increasing likelihood of their powers failing throughout the scene. For detailed information about **Powers** and **Burnout,** refer to page XX.

## Feats 

Feats are a collection of features which may represent training in a new skill, a special talent, or an advanced level of training beyond mere skill aptitude. There are also **Power Feats** which are feats that specifically change the way you interact with your powers or grant you an improved level of mastery with your powers without improving its power score.

## Features

Much like feats, features represent a evolution of your hero, gained from leveling up, each Origin possesses a set of features you can choose from.

## Gear

One of the most essential things is your starting gear. Besides providing means of survival, that trusty .45 Colt you picked up will keep the zombies at bay when you burnout. For more information on gear, check out page XX

# The Core Mechanics

From blasting at a zombie with their powers to scavenging through the remains of a ransacked building or negotiating with a roving biker gang, events like these will call upon your hero's skill and physical capabilities, so in such actions where the outcome is uncertain, *we roll a d20.*

The core mechanic of the game breaks down to **d20 + Modifiers** vs. a **Target Number**, if the total of a die roll plus modifiers equals or surpasses the target number, the roll is a success. This simple rule governs most task resolutions.

**Modifiers:** can be either bonuses or penalties derived from several sources like ability scores, skills, powers, rank, feats, gear, as well as circumstances such as attempting to fire an arrow as you fall off the side of a building.

Target Numbers are commonly set by the editor-in-chief, which lets the players know if they succeeded or not. These Target Numbers can come from a variety of sources and will be referred to as a Difficulty Class (DC), which may be a simple, arbitrary number, or set by a Passive Power DC, Defense, or the result of an Opposed roll.  
  
**Advantage and Disadvantage**

You can gain Advantage or Disadvantage on any roll, whether it’s an attack roll, saving throw, or skill check.

- **Advantage**: Roll an additional d20 and use the higher result.

- **Disadvantage**: Roll an additional d20 and use the lower result.

For example, if you have Disadvantage and roll a 17 and a 5, you use the 5. Conversely, if you have Advantage and roll a 17 and a 5, you use the 17.

When multiple factors affect a roll with both Advantage and Disadvantage, you still roll only one additional d20. If conditions grant both Advantage and Disadvantage, they cancel each other out, and you roll a single d20 as normal. For example, if you have two conditions granting Advantage and one imposing Disadvantage, you still have Advantage on your roll.

### Critical Success and Critical Failure

Any time you are making an attack roll, saving throw, or a skill check, a roll of 1 or 20 before applying any modifiers is a critical failure (on a 1) or a Critical Success (on a 20); For the most part, a natural (before modifiers are applied) 20 is always a success, while a 1 is always a failure. See Skill Checks: Critical Results (pg. XX) and Combat: Critical Hits/Misses (pg. XX) for more.

# Types of Checks 

During gameplay, you will be required to make five specific types of checks: Ability Checks (mentioned challenges below), Saving Throws, Power Checks, and Attack Rolls. All of these use the core mechanic previously presented above.

**Saving Throws** are a special type of ability check where you add your rank to the roll. They are used to resist effects that could overwhelm an average person or to help you break free from adverse conditions. For example, when making an **Intelligence Saving Throw**, roll a d20 and add your Intelligence modifier, your Grit bonus, and any other relevant modifiers. Compare the total to the Difficulty Class (DC). For more details on **Grit,** see page XX.

**Power Checks** are tests of your power’s potential and/or your proficiency in its use. Each power possesses a corresponding ability score referred to as the power’s linked ability. When a Power Check is called for roll a d20 and add your power modifier, your rank, and any other relevant modifiers. for more on **Power Checks,** see pg XX.

**Attack Rolls** are used to make attacks against creatures or objects. To make an attack roll, roll a d20 and add either your ability modifier or power modifier, plus your rank and any other relevant modifiers. The result is compared against one of three defenses: Avoidance, Resilience, or Willpower. For more on Attack Rolls see pg. XX  
  
Challenges (Ability Checks)

Throughout the game, your hero will face **Challenges**, pivotal moments that test their abilities, training, and creativity. Challenges use the core mechanic: roll a d20 and add modifiers, attempting to meet or exceed the set target number referred to as its Difficulty Class (DC).

When a Challenge arises, the Editor-in-Chief describes the situation and sets the DC based on difficulty. You, as the player, describe how your hero approaches the Challenge, and which ability and/or Skill Set they draw upon. The Editor-in-Chief determines whether the justification is reasonable.

**Ability-Only Challenge:** When no applicable Skill Set can reasonably be applied, the Challenge is resolved as a pure Ability Check. Roll a d20 and add the relevant ability score modifier. Compare the result to the DC.

**Skill Set-Enhanced Challenge:** When one of your Skill Sets applies, roll a d20 and add the relevant ability modifier **plus your Rank Bonus**. If an Edge within that Skill Set also applies, double your Rank Bonus for this check. Creative use of Skill Sets is encouraged. Pitch your idea to the Editor-in-Chief!

This system is designed to empower cinematic storytelling. Even in failure, Challenges create tension and drama, pushing the story forward through consequences rather than stopping it in its tracks. Whenever possible, failing a Challenge should create complications or new opportunities, not dead ends.

For guidance on setting DCs and examples of creative Skill Set applications, see page XX.

### Bonuses and Stacking 

Bonuses from the same source do not stack; instead, you always use the highest bonus applicable to the situation. Sources include ability scores, power scores, powers, features, feats, and circumstances.

For example, if you have two feats that provide bonuses to Stealth checks—one offering a +1 bonus to all Stealth checks and the other providing a +2 bonus in urban environments—you would benefit from the +2 bonus while in urban environments and the +1 bonus in all other situations.

\<side bar\>

###  Optional Rules

Throughout the rules you will see optional rules being proposed, the adoption of these rules are left up to each group of players and the editor in chief.  
  
**Brutal Continuity:** rules called out as *Brutal Continuity* hard in essence hard core rules, they ramp up the deadliness of the game system, sometimes substantially, apply these rules with caution and with the complete by in of the players.

\</side bar\>

### Rounding Down

Whenever you divide a number in the game, round down if you end up with a fraction, even if the fraction is one-half or greater.

### Specific Rules Beat General Rules

If a specific rule contradicts a general rule, the specific rule wins. For example, a general rule is that creatures can move a number of areas equal to their Pace, but powers can allow you to surpass that number, sometimes by quite a bit.

## Plot Points

Remember how we talked about the narrative being a primary driver over simulation-style play? Plot Points provide us with the mechanics that allow us to encourage just that. They empower players to help create, shape, and enhance the story. Whether altering a scene, overcoming challenges, or pushing beyond their limits, Plot Points put narrative control into the players' hands, fostering creativity and dynamic storytelling. But be careful—Plot Points spent end up in the hands of the Editor-in-Chief, who can use them to give the villains an edge. For more information on **Plot Points,** see page XX

# Supporting Cast and Bystanders

Zombie survival stories are always more about the survivors than taking down the zombies. At the end of character creation and before the first game, you, the editor-in-chief, and the other players create a cast of **Supporting Characters** together, with each player creating two non-powered individuals who have a personal connection with their hero. The player creating their Supporting Characters can choose to give them helpful skill sets, while other players can propose personality flaws. Beyond the **Supporting Cast,** the heroes can come across or even start playing with additional **bystanders** as part of their enclave, as determined by the editor-in-chief. For more information on the Supporting Cast, see page XX.
