# \<h1\> Hero Advancement

The thing about survival is, with time, you get better at it, or you die. Crushing Z heads, fighting off marauders, fixing that finicky generator, or finding a stash of antibiotics, the more you do it, the better you get at it. Maybe you’ll sharpen your skills as you expand your skill set. Maybe you finally get that new gadget to work, or put the time in to mastering your powers, or even discover new ones along the way. Or maybe you put the work in to improve your physicality or sharpen your mind.

Before Z-Day, governments classified heroes and villains. They used a system similar to storm categories, assigning numerical values from Category I for the weakest to Category V for the most powerful, with Category X for cosmic-level threats. In the online space, scores of vloggers, many self-proclaimed superpower experts, poured over hours and hours of footage to develop power rankings. Ranking heroes using Greek alphabetical letters, ranging powered individuals from Delta for the weakest to Omega for the most powerful of earth’s individuals. But it was one naming convention that grew out of the classic media, enduring even in alternate media space before Z day, one splitting heroes and villains alike into A-Listers and Prime-Listers, the big names, the ones to watch, and the B-Lister, the forgettable street-level heroes and villains or plucky sidekicks.

## \<h2\> Leveling in Rotted Capes

After completing an issue, your editor-in-chief will commonly award you a level increase. Once you reach the 10th level, your next level sets you at level 1 of the next rank. For Example, as an Epsilon (Rank 1) hero, once you finish your 11<sup>th</sup> issue, you become a level 1 Rank 2 (Delta) hero.

**\<SIDE BAR\>**

### \<h3\> Beyond rank 6: Omega Level Heroes

Omega-level heroes and threats represent the pinnacle of power, possessing cosmic-level abilities that far surpass the capabilities of ordinary heroes. These beings, often referred to as Omaga-level heroes, wield such immense power that they exist beyond the scope of typical gameplay in Rotted Capes. While the game system is designed with limits to maintain balance, it theoretically allows for conscious extrapolation beyond Rank 7, enabling the imagination of powers and threats of even greater magnitude.

\</SIDE BAR\>

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 38%" />
<col style="width: 61%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th><table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 24%" />
<col style="width: 75%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="text-align: center;"><strong>Table X-X<br />
Hero Advancement Table</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;"><strong>Level</strong></td>
<td><strong>Improvement</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">1</td>
<td>Creation/Rank Increase</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">2</td>
<td>Power Boost</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">3</td>
<td>Feat</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">4</td>
<td>Feature</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">5</td>
<td>Power Boost</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">6</td>
<td>Feat</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">7</td>
<td>Feature</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">8</td>
<td>Power Boost</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">9</td>
<td>Feat</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">10</td>
<td>Feature</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table></th>
<th><table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 12%" />
<col style="width: 19%" />
<col style="width: 18%" />
<col style="width: 49%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
<th colspan="4"><strong>Table X-X Hero Ranks &amp; Rank Cap</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><strong>Rank</strong></td>
<td><strong>Rank Cap</strong></td>
<td colspan="2"><strong>Categorization</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">1</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">20</td>
<td>Zeta</td>
<td rowspan="3" style="text-align: center;">B-Lister</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">2</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">24</td>
<td>Epsilon*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">3</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">28</td>
<td>Delta</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">4</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">32</td>
<td>Gamma</td>
<td rowspan="3" style="text-align: center;">A-Lister</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">5</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">36</td>
<td>Beta</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">6</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">40</td>
<td>Alpha</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">7</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">44</td>
<td>Theta</td>
<td rowspan="4" style="text-align: center;">Ultra</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">8</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">47</td>
<td>Sigma</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">9</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">50</td>
<td>Upsilon</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: center;">10</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">50</td>
<td>Omega</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>Note: Heroes start as Level 1 – Epsilon Rank heroes</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
</tbody>
</table>

## \<h2\> Leveling Features 

As you gain levels, you may choose one of the following options at each level.  
Any increase to an ability or power score beyond your current Rank Cap is considered untapped potential and does not apply until you advance to a higher Rank.

- **Rank Increase:** Increase your rank by +1. This raises your Rank Cap by 5, your Rank Bonus, and Grit by +1.

- **Feat:** Choose Feat

- **Feature:** Choose an Origin Feature

- **Power Boost:** Increase all your power scores by +1.

## \<h2\> Rank Cap: Ability and Power Score Caps 

A hero or threat cannot have an ability score or power score higher than their rank cap, as shown on **Table X-X Hero Ranks & Rank Cap**; this includes bonuses from powers and power modifications.

Ability and Power Score’s final score exceeds this cap; it is capped at this maximum. Any points above the cap are considered untapped potential. As you increase in rank, you can utilize the power’s score up to the new rank cap.

## \<h2\> Campaign Cap 

The editor-in-chief may set a rank cap for the campaign; once you reach this cap, you simply no longer level. Most campaigns are capped at rank 4 Gamma (A-Listers), but again, your editor-in-chief may opt for a higher cap. Keep in mind that Highly Trained heroes will have a hard time increasing beyond rank 4; you can always give these heroes an additional Origin, allowing them to develop new abilities beyond those of a Highly Trained hero.

**\<side bar\>**

### \<h3\> Optional Rule: Retcon

Rotted Capes has a lot of character options, so much so that it’s very easy for a player to create a hero they are just not happy playing. For this, we have the Retcon rule: any time before the hero hits Epsilon level 9, they can change their character’s ability scores and powers by going back to those steps of hero creation and then applying any leveling features they may have gained. Don’t allow this if someone is attempting to game the system; the retcon is meant to be a safety net for new players.

**\</side bar\>**

### \<h3\> Optional Rule: Starting at a higher level.

If you want to start your campaign at a higher rank, have your players create their heroes as usual. After which, have them add the following for each rank beyond rank 2 Epsilon.

- Increase your grit and rank bonus by 1.

- Increase your Power Ranks by **+3**

- Choose **3 Feats**.

- Choose **3 Origin Features**.

> **For example:**  
> If starting at Rank 5 (Beta, three Ranks above Epsilon):

- Rank Bonus and Grit increases to +5

- All Power Ranks increase by +9.

- Choosing **9 Feats**.

- Choose 9 **Origin** Features.
