**\<H1\> The World of Rotted Capes**

Creating B-Listers and learning the rules is just the start of the game. In order to create fun **Rotted Capes** issues you’re going to need to think about the world and how the B-Listers are going to interact with it. This section offers information and advice on where to set your series, how to put together fun issues, and dealing with the human dramas.

There’s a lot of advice here but relax! Chances are that this isn’t your first time as an Editor-in-Chief and, even if you are, most of this is just helping you gather your thoughts when plotting issues. You don’t need to use all of this information for every issue or even every series.

Now without further ado, let’s take a look at your setting.

\<h2\>**Just Past Now…**

The world of **Rotted Capes** is our own, set approximately 2-4 years after Z-Day (or, more importantly, 2-4 years after you’re reading this). It’s not exactly our world, of course, but one with a four-color overlay. In keeping with superhero tradition you’ll probably want to base your campaign within or around a major city.

The default setting of **Rotted Capes** is Paradigm City. With the exception of the conceit that the world was our own when Z-Day hit. **Rotted Capes** also presumes that the geopolitical, economic, and technology of our present world was in place as well. This means that anything that is available to you now may be part of a **Rotted Capes** campaign. Portable and practical laser pistols and personal jetpacks are the province of super geniuses, not the world at large.

\<h2\>**…Or Not?**

While the default world of **Rotted Capes** is set in our own early 21st century, you may decide to place the Z-Day whenever you want. Perhaps Z-Day was Hiroshima, and the heroes must survive a world with ex-Axis micropowers (small states that carry on the principles of the Third Reich), Nazi Super Zombies, and A-Lister costumed heroes that weren’t much more powerful than the B-Listers. Maybe you’d rather set off Z-Day in the 1960s, when the superheroes of the Silver Age were just getting started. Or perhaps the 1980s is more to your liking, where the landscape resembles the post-apocalyptic films of the time.

You may even choose to go further afield, setting the game in earlier centuries or even the future, where the addition of superheroes gives a flavorful period feel (cyberpunk future, steampunk Wild West, or mythic Greece). So long as the campaign involves B-Listers trying to survive in a ruined, zombie-infested world, you have a game of **Rotted Capes.**

\<sidebar\>

**Using a Published Setting**

While **Rotted Capes** is set in a four-color world similar to our own with its own iconic heroes and villains, you don’t have to use Paradigm City or even create your own. Instead, you can use a published setting by your favorite comic book company, television series, or even another RPG publisher. You can base your campaign around an established city from that publisher and decide which “A-Listers” were killed and which are currently Super Zombies. The Players may choose heroes that were on the B-List in the published setting or they may create original characters.

The benefit of this approach is that you already have a built-in superhero backstory to hook the players and create adventures. Even if you don’t decide to use a published setting as-is, you can certainly pull heroes and villains from those sources and give them a fresh coat of paint. Maybe that Super Zombie in the red and white tights used to fight for “Truth, Justice, and the Canadian Way!”

\</sidebar\>

**\<H1\>What is Z-Day?**

Most B-Listers and Bystanders refer to the event that caused the zombie aftermath “Z-Day.” The term itself is convenient slang for something unknown – most of the survivors have no idea how the zombie aftermath actually began. Numerous theories abound; alien invasion, magical mishap, government project, or super-villain plot gone wrong are just a few theories. So what is the truth regarding Z-Day?

We don’t know.

Okay, that’s not entirely true. We do know, but for the moment your answer is as good as ours. **Rotted Capes** is not just a game of slugfests and survival; it’s also a game about exploration. Your players shouldn’t know what spawned the zombies, or if Z-Day was a one-time event or something that’s ongoing. This is your province as Editor-in-Chief.

If you want a happy ending, perhaps there is some method to end the Z-Day threat for good or even to reverse its effects; that’s very “four color” and very much a part of **Rotted Capes** if you want it to be. Alternatively, you may have the heroes discover that the Z-Day event pushed the world past critical mass; even if every zombie in the world were destroyed the survivors only have a few generations left.

Or you don’t have to create a reason for Z-Day at all. Let your players stew about it and have their Heroes create theories based on what they’ve pieced together. You may even have two or more competing theories, each leading to new adventures and pulling the heroes in different directions. Better yet, let the players “figure out” the truth on their own, leaving you to run with it.

**/Start_Side_Bar**

Possible Causes of Z-Day

Some Editor’s-in-Chief may feel that to properly tell their Rotted Capes series that they need to know what sparked the Z-Day Event. Below you will find some possible explanations that you can choose, discard or modify as you wish.

1.  A naturally occurring virus, perhaps long dormant but now active once more due to the encroachment of civilization into areas that were once untouched by man (similar to what occurred with the Ebola Virus in our world), has been transmitted to humans through contact with infected primates, such as chimpanzees. Patient Zero was infected, traveled to a more populated region, died, was reanimated and began to feed, spreading the disease.
2.  The virus was genetically manufactured by a government (foreign or domestic) or a maniacal villain. The spread occurred as in number 1 or was meant to have a different effect and was created as an airborne disease. While airborne and over time, the virus mutated and infected the entire population of the earth, making all humans carriers. Once a person dies, they are reanimated as flesh eating zombies. A fate that all people upon the planet will ultimately share.
3.  For those wishing for a more supernatural slant, a sorcerous super-villain with ties to the Voodoo religion, enacts a ritual meant to give him ultimate power over the Risen Dead. The ritual has unexpected consequences and curses all the people of the earth to rise after death. In this scenario, Z-Day is a supernatural plague that cannot be cured by scientific means with the only possible cure residing in the realm of the mystic arts!
4.  At the other end of the spectrum, the virus could have been seeded by an alien race or empire bent on ravaging our planet of its resources, but not wanting to deal with the living inhabitants. Their solution is to spread a virus (perhaps a nanotech virus) that reanimates the dead with a compulsion to attack the living. Within a few years, all the living populace would be decimated (or gone) leaving no one to resist the alien invasion.
5.  

**/End_Side_Bar**

**\<H1\>A-Listers and B-Listers**

Throughout **Rotted Capes** you’ve seen references to “A-Listers” and “B-Listers.” You probably also know by now what the terms mean. That said, the A-Listers are more than just the more powerful heroes and villains that died in the early days of the apocalypse. They are the stories that spawn adventures and are a part of your world’s mythology.

Was one A-Lister particularly patriotic and/or inspiring? If so, then an enclave tries to live up to her ideals. Did a super-genius A-Lister have a bunker beneath the city? If so, then your heroes may risk zombie infection to find it. Was one A-Lister particularly connected to the heroes? If so, she is now a Super Zombie bent on their destruction.

In a similar vein, being a B-Lister is much more than “nobody special except for power X.” B-Listers are survivors; they’ve survived the initial zombie onslaught and they’ve learned valuable skills in the process. Their powers while few, give them an edge that helps keep the zombies at bay. Bystanders don’t distinguish between A-Lister and B-Lister; for them, a B-Lister is simply a Hero.

**\<H1\>The Series City**

Stories about superheroes generally involve a city. This makes sense, given the number of Bystanders that need protection. Being the hero of a small town means you get to stop the occasional convenience store robbery or settle domestic disputes; being the hero of a city offers greater challenges. A city is also large enough to contain several superheroes and villains, enabling the heroes to make allies and take on several challenges; if your only enemy is Doctor Demon, then you’ve got little to do while he’s warming a prison cell after your last encounter.

In **Rotted Capes**, your series city is where most of the action takes place. Sure, it’s overrun with zombies and super zombies, but the city is also a place of great treasures and Bystanders that need rescuing. The enclave is never far from the city so that the occasional foraging party can grab canned food and other necessities from the many abandoned stores within the city.

The fictional Paradigm City is the default location for **Rotted Capes** series. It’s designed as an archetypal four color city with its own hometown superhero team, the Protectors, and a rogues’ gallery, as well as specific landmarks and local legends. You can easily use this framework as-is or as inspiration for “four-coloring” your own series city.

\<sidebar\>

**On the Road**

While **Rotted Capes** assumes an urban/suburban setting by default, there’s nothing stopping you from setting your campaign further afield. Indeed, one fun variant is the “road game,” where the heroes travel to different places each issue. This is different from a “caravan” enclave, where the B-Listers protect a group of traveling Bystanders. Instead, your B-Listers are Ronin, going from place to place in order to solve problems without creating any lasting ties. They may even be searching for something and contact enclaves in the hopes that they can find clues as to what they are seeking.

While such a campaign doesn’t allow for deep exploration of a single area, it does allow an Editor-in-Chief to change the atmosphere with a different setting. The Heroes may simply be wanderers on the road, protecting travelers along the way, or the Heroes’ enclave may actually be a ship that scavenges from different ports.

One benefit of a “road game” is that you can spread out the B-Listers and super zombies so that each city only has a handful of super beings, rather than a single series city that is bursting with them. It also paints the bleak totality of an entire world gone to Hell, as opposed to a single city. The B-Listers may meet important characters from different parts of the world and find that solutions for one region may not be ideal for all regions.

\</sidebar\>

**\<H2\>Choosing Your City**

The first thing you need to decide when creating a **Rotted Capes** issue or series is where the action is going to take place. The “default” location for **Rotted Capes** is Paradigm City, which is described in various examples throughout this section. While we’ve done our best to give you a vibrant four-color city, there’s no reason why you can’t base your series in another city if you so desire.

If you’re sticking with the real world, a fun choice would be the city nearest you, especially if you live close by. This enables you to paint a clearer picture of the places that the Heroes are visiting. For example, if your heroes are operating just outside Philadelphia, telling them that they need to cross the Girard Point Bridge paints a vivid picture of a double decker bridge that sits over the Schuylkill River between the former Navy Yard and the airport, rather than telling them that they need to cross “the bridge that connects the suburbs to Generic City”).

Another good choice if you’ve run other superhero RPGs (or at least have the materials on your shelf) is to use a city, real or fictional, that featured prominently in your previous series. Assuming you have the same players, such a city may be almost as familiar to them as their own. You could also use an established city from elsewhere in fiction, such as the home city of a favorite comic book superhero or a favorite film.

\<sidebar\>

**Real Maps**

One of the advantages to using a real-world city is that there are mapping websites that enable you to zoom in and get an accurate portrayal of an area. Google Maps (maps.google.com) is especially useful in that, not only can you zoom in fairly close (1 inch = 20 feet), but you can also get a “street view” of most metropolitan streets.

\</sidebar\>

**\<H3\>Paradigm City**

Paradigm City is a Midwestern metropolis with a Glory Days population of about 2,000,000. Built primarily as a railroad town by Henry “Hank” Walters in 1826 (Walters intended for it to be the model, or “paradigm” for future cities, hence its name), Paradigm City soon became a prosperous port city due to being built on the Blue River, which feeds into the Mississippi.

Due to being a hub of trade, Paradigm City attracted many immigrants, making it one of the most cosmopolitan cities in the Midwest. It also garnered the nickname of “the Hub of America,” since most business crossing the country went through it. The numerous railroads also enabled the suburbs to prosper and, as time wore on, many of the closest suburbs were absorbed into the city proper.

Paradigm City was part of the Union during the American Civil War and was part of the Underground Railroad. During this period Paradigm City’s first costumed hero, the original Night Lord, who primarily aided escaping slaves and confronted slave hunters. Night Lord was also Paradigm City’s first African-American superhero, although his costume disguised this fact.

During the Gilded Age many wealthy industrialists increased their fortunes through Paradigm City and organized crime began taking over the distribution channels, primarily by exploiting new immigrants. Paradigm City was in need of heroes, and several costumed vigilantes answered the call. Unfortunately, corrupt industrialists and mob bosses bankrolled costumed villains and a secret war raged in the alleys of the city.

Night Lord reappeared, as did other heroes. The Blue Bullet, true to his name, used a pistol that fired bullets made of blue-tinted lead. Spring-Heeled Jack was an English immigrant who used shoes with springs, amongst other gadgets, to surprise his foes.

Amongst the first costumed villains were the Brass Brawler, who employed heavy knuckledusters, the Butcher, a knife specialist, and the Frog, an Asian martial artist that wanted to go by the name of “the Jade Tiger” but couldn’t shake the appellation given to him by an eager journalist of the **Paradigm Chronicle**.

It was during the dawn of the 20th Century that an event occurred to which most Conspiracy Theorists point to as the cause of the advent of the “super-being”. On June 30th, 1908, a meteorite or comet burst apart violently over Tunguska, Russia, flattening trees for hundreds of square miles of the uninhabited wilderness of Siberia. A few months later, in on September 7th, another, even more violent airburst occurred over the area between Fairbanks, Alaska and the Yukon Territory of Canada. Witnesses say that the blast was so massive and so much energy released, that the very glow of the Aurora Borealis changed color to a steady red for the rest of the year.

The connection between this event and the emergence of the “super-being” was made in 1925 when biologist and fervent eugenics advocate, Dr. Hans Claust, published a paper claiming that the generation born just after the Yukon-Charley Event would be known as the Generation of the “Übermensch”, given the surprising rise of costumed heroes who enjoyed seemingly amazing natural powers. While these super-human abilities pale in comparison to those exhibited by the Heroes of the Golden Age, they were unprecedented during the time of the paper’s publication. Though many scoff at Dr. Claust’s work as an attempt to advance the now discredited theory of eugenics, many concede that each generation born after the Yukon-Charley Event does exhibit those born with more and more powerful and wondrous powers and abilities that were unknown previously.

During the same period of time in the continental US, Paradigm City continued to grow at a rapid pace. Between the two World Wars many of the original Heroes continued to operate, although journalists speculated that they weren’t the originals. Additionally, a new breed of costumed hero rose, seemingly not needing gadgets to assist them in manifesting their modest super powers.

Organized crime got a boost in the 1930s when a mysterious gadgeteer known only as Professor Gojkovic, outfitted villains with a variety of gadgets. The villains Armadillo (who wore an armored vest), Tommy Gun (who favored a submachine gun with a variety of specialized bullets) and Azrael, a hit man that took his name from the fact that he could fire from so far away it was like the bullet came from the heavens) were three of Professor Gojkovic’s beneficiaries.

Paradigm City’s first “super-villain” also came out of the 1930s when an industrial worker accidentally fell into a vat of chemicals that made his skin bulletproof. He turned to a life of crime as Diamond Dan and was quite successful before his enemies realized that invulnerability did not equate to “invincible.” Interestingly, his final defeat didn’t come at the hands of heroes but rather a rival mob, which fitted him with “cement shoes” and dropped him into the Blue River.

After World War II Paradigm City’s suburbs exploded and the city became a hub of manufacturing thanks to an automobile plant and a popular brewery. The sudden appearance of “mutant heroes” in America coincided with the Red Scare of the 1950s and efforts were made to tie them to Communism (as it turned out, the Soviet Union was busy interring their own mutants and forcing them to work for the government) and wanted all mutants to go public and register their powers as if they were firearms. Both the Korean conflict and the wars in Southeast Asia kept the various registration acts off the table and by the late 1960s the social revolution made any talk of registration moot.

A financial boom occurred in the 1980s as white collar business exploded. Downtown Paradigm City became dominated by increasing numbers of skyscrapers. The 1980s and 1990s also saw a boom in the number of superheroes, including Lady Liberty and a new Night Lord. With the end of the Cold War, SuTech (Superior Technologies), an international weapons supplier and elite mercenary force, broadened their market and supplied many super-villains with battlesuits, war machines, and other gadgets, many of whom found their way to Paradigm City. Perhaps the strongest of these was Iron Star, a former Soviet soldier that had been cybernetically enhanced in the mid-1980s. Along with the immensely powerful super-human christened the Judgment of the People, these two Soviet Super Soldiers gave many of Paradigm City’s premier heroes many an epic battle.

The early years of the 2000s saw the rise in patriotic superheroes again as 9/11 galvanized patriotic fervor. Captain Freedom and Red Rocket (later changing her codename to Shooting Star) appeared during this decade. Unfortunately, it also saw the economic collapse of Paradigm City as downsizing companies took advantage of new technologies to outsource their operations.

In the final years of the Glory Days, Paradigm City was a shadow of its former self, although there were signs of a comeback as the city aggressively pursued gentrification and tax breaks for corporations. Things were just starting to turn around when Z-Day hit, destroying the city, and civilization, forever.

**\<H2\>Glory Days in the City**

Whether you decide to use Paradigm City, a real city, or a fictional one (either published or of your own design) it helps to know what that city was like during the Glory Days. You’ll want to know the general geography and various landmarks that make your city unique. You’ll also want to know what superheroes and super-villains populated your city, both when Z-Day hit and throughout the city’s history.

Such details are more than just a historical exercise; they are the elements of your series. They can also be the springboard for an issue or plot element, as well as references for flashback scenes. A good rule of thumb is to think about your city as if you were going to run a modern four color superhero series without the zombie horror elements. What would be important for you to include? Where do your villains hide? Why do they want to terrorize your city as opposed to somewhere else? Do your city heroes work as a team? Are there any lone wolves or anti-heroes?

While nailing down all these details can be a bit overwhelming, there are a few areas where you should concentrate most of your efforts. Here are a few things to consider when thinking about the Glory Days.

**\<H3\>Who Were the A-Listers?**

In the typical superhero city, there is always at least one Hero that is seen as its protector. Most cities actually have several such heroes and sometimes they even band together in a clubhouse. Similarly, there are usually one or more villains that become part of the hometown heroes’ rogues’ gallery.

You’ll want to flesh out your A-Listers. Who were they? What powers did they wield? Did they have secret identities? What were their personalities, goals, and desires? Were they part of a group? Did they have minions or sidekicks? Who were their usual nemeses?

In addition to thinking about your A-Listers, you’ll also want to give some thought to any secret headquarters or base of operations. Did your A-Lister keep super vehicles handy? Did she need a laboratory to develop her latest potions? Did he have a spare battle suit stored somewhere?

Finally, you’ll need to decide what happened to them. Did they die in the initial wave? Did they become super zombies and, if so, are they still kicking? If the A-Lister survived, then where did she go? What is she doing today?

Remember also that any A-Listers with special equipment may have left that equipment lying around in the city. Where did Thunder Hammer drop his weapon when he was killed? The Steel Sentinel Super Zombie is missing several pieces of his battle suit; where did they go?

**\<H3\>Paradigm City’s A-Listers**

Paradigm city has always been a hotspot for superhuman activity. The following are some of its major A-Listers when Z-Day began. Unless otherwise stated, all heroes below belonged to the Protectors.

**\<h4\>The Sentinel:** Justin Jordan has been Paradigm City’s premier hero since he returned from World War II. He continued to work with ParaChem and the government as well as being a charter member of the Protectors. Possessed with superhuman strength, speed and a thick skin that only the highest caliber shell could break, Sentinel never-the-less fell during the first days of zombie outbreak, though no one knows if the Hero of Paradigm City is resting in peace or turned into a ravenous Super-Zombie.

**\<h4\>Thunderbird:** Tommy Redbird was a city attorney and member of the Miami tribe. He has the ability to generate intense heat which enables him to fly, throw fire bolts, and create a heat force field (Tommy was fully aware that the Thunderbird was not a Miami myth nor a fire creature). Thunderbird was one of two A-Listers that survived the Z-Day. He went to Oklahoma to check on relatives and hasn’t been seen since.

**\<h4\>Behemoth:** One of Professor Gojkovik’s later experiments, the Behemoth broke free and became a reluctant hero in Paradigm City. He resembles an overly large man with bulging muscles, grey slate armored skin, and tufts of hair all over his body. He also had no memory of who he was. Rumors abound that the Behemoth has been seen, still alive, in neighboring cities. Why he has not made an appearance in his “home town” of Paradigm City is unknown.

**\<h4\>Lady Liberty:** Samantha Pyle was born with the mutant ability to fly. She also wore bracers that fired concussive bolts of energy. In her secret identity she was a political science professor at the Caswell School in Paradigm City University. She survived Z-Day and protected an enclave with her sidekick Torch for six months before she was turned.

**\<h4\>The Ronin:** Paul Kitsune was the son of the Blue Dragon, a yakuza enforcer. Paul rejected his father’s criminal culture and fueled his martial arts abilities with Ki energy. He had the good fortune to partner with someone who had a revolutionary idea for computing and became a very successful businessman. He was also a philanthropist and built the largest Buddhist temple in the Midwest. The Ronin disappeared after Z-Day.

**\<h4\>Night Wolf:** Another of Professor Gojkovik’s experiments, Night Wolf can become a “wolf-man” with extremely tough skin. Roberto Vasquez was a college student when he was kidnapped and transformed. After his rescue by the Protectors, Night Wolf decided to become one of them. He wanted to be called “Black Wolf” but a politically sensitive editor dubbed him “Night Wolf” on the network news. Night Wolf was Z’d while battling the hordes of dead at the infamous Vesper Hall event.

**\<h4\>Shooting Star:** Jasmine Hainesworth was a promising athlete when she shocked everyone in high school by leaping for the basketball net and, with a burst of mutant energy, flew straight through the gym ceiling and safely landed in the parking lot outside. Moving to Paradigm City, she became a psychiatrist and school guidance counselor. As a hero, she always preached maintaining high ideals, which got her torn apart when she faced the Z’d Titan.

**\<h4\>Gearjack:** Trey Gavin was always building things as a kid, so it was no surprise when he became the top engineer at Nova Phoenix Technologies in Paradigm City. Trey built a battlesuit to fight crime. He was thought killed in Z-Day but resurfaced several weeks later wearing a new battlesuit created from scraps. Gearjack was finally Z’d a few months ago when his power source failed and he was forced to abandon his armor.

**\<h4\>Titan:** Known as the gentle giant of herodom, Titan was one of the most beloved heroes of Paradigm City. Eschewing wearing a mask of any type Titan, Frank Mancino, became one of the first “public heroes”. Dividing his time between battling his nemesis, the Judgment of the People and doing commercials and guest appearances on a variety of TV shows, he became an instant celebrity and the hero of the “common man”. Titan was thought lost when he was last seen trying to save a bus load of bystanders from the Risen Dead, the survivors later learned to their horror that the good natured hero had been turned into one of the most malicious Super-Zombies.

**\<h4\>Blue Bolt:** Once the fastest man alive, the Blue Bolt is now the fastest of the dead. In his late 40’s and semi-retired when Z-Day hit, Donald Goss donned his blue and yellow uniform and raced to save as many of his fellow citizens as possible. Though credited with rescuing hundreds about the city, the Blue Bolt disappeared a week into the cataclysm of the zombie plague. It was only later, that a task force from the CDC realized that the accelerated spread of the Z-Virus was due to the blue speedster, who appears to have been infected during the opening days of the outbreak. Due to his hyper metabolism, the Super Zombie Blue Bolt was forced to feed at an accelerated rate, hastening the spread of the disease world-wide. The last sighting of Blue Bolt took place in China, as the Hero of the People’s Republic engaged him upon the Great Wall.

**\<\<INSERT ART PROF\> GOJKOVIK\>\>**

**\<h4\>Professor Gojkovik:** Also known as the Eternal Man, Prof. Gojkovik is known to have lived at least 200 years, based upon vintage pictures from the 1800’s that show the professor looking much as he does today. Gojkovik is not a true immortal however. A bio-chemical savant, Gojkovik has extended his life through the use of various chemical concoctions and arcane formulae, but his ultimate goal of immortality appears to have eluded him thus far. Professed to be an expert in such disparate fields such as cybernetics and necromancy, Gojkovik also professes to be the world’s foremost expert on the super-human condition, being an eye-witness of the very first ubermensch to the wondrous heroes of today. Throughout the Golden Age, he has outfitted would-be villains with weapons, armor and other tech for a hefty percentage of heir take. Since the outbreak of the Z-Virus, the whereabouts of the Eternal Man remain unknown.

**\<h4\>Mad Hatter:** One of the most colorful crime lords in Paradigm City, Alexander Napoleon (likely not his real name) fashions himself after the character of Professor Moriarty of Sherlock Holmes fame. He has the ability to control minds and emotions. The Mad Hatter usually dresses in a black Victorian evening suit and insists on speaking with a dodgy English accent. His crimes are often overly elaborate and flamboyant, which garnered him the sobriquet of “the Mad Hatter.” This only incensed the crime lord, as he wanted to be known as “the Napoleon of Crime.” The Mad Hatter was Z’D, but he seems to control zombies just as well as humans now, dressing his “minions” in Victorian garb. B-Listers that have seen him since his transformation note that there doesn’t seem to be much difference between human Mad Hatter and super zombie Mad Hatter.

**\<h4\>Haley’s Comet:** Hailee Ford was a low-level clerk in a big city office when she missed the train one morning. Desperate to catch it, she rushed to the platform just as the train was pulling away. Suddenly, Hailee had a burst of speed and ran right past the train and into the city on her own power. When she questioned others, they saw only a white blur. Hailee decided to use her power to supplement her income and became Haley Comet. When Z-Day hit she fled the city. No one’s sure what’s happened to her since.

**\<h4\>Bastet:** Lucy McGee was diagnosed with a multiple personality disorder and committed to New Bethlehem Developmental Center just outside of Paradigm City. One of her personalities claimed to be the reincarnation of an Ancient Egyptian priestess and used sorcery to break free. In addition to her sorcery, she has the reflexes and abilities of a cat, along with extra sharp nails and catlike eyes. Most of Bastet’s crimes revolved around stealing artifacts, especially Egyptian ones. She was turned a few months after Z-Day and it is believed that her sorcerous powers may actually be mutations, as her super zombie self can still use them.

**\<h4\>Cold Snap:** Martin Phillips was a high school history teacher and historical re-enactor. He always knew he had the ability to create and control cold weather and ice, but his abilities were minor. One day, he was assaulted by the boyfriend of a fellow teacher he fancied and, panicking, Martin impaled him with an ice spear. He felt strangely empowered by the act and decided to inflict himself on all sorts of “injustices,” which he defined as anyone he perceived to have wronged him. He repurposed a Union Cavalry uniform and Frozen Custer was born. When Z-Day came, he actually sided with the heroes. No one is sure what happened to him after the initial assault; most presume he was turned but there are rumors that he froze himself in self-defense (see **Legends and Artifacts**).

**\<h4\>Atlas:** Byron Wade was an up-and-coming boxer who made money breaking legs on the side. His life changed forever when, while suffering a particularly brutal beating in the ring, his skin turned to stone. He’d have killed his opponent with a punch had it not been mitigated by the suddenly heavy boxer falling through the ring. Since then, Atlas worked as an enforcer for the Benton Mob. Atlas has been sporadically sighted since Z-Day, but no one is sure whether the stone man is human or zombie.

**\<h4\>The Judgment (of the People):** Once the leader of the *Super Soviets*, the premier super hero group of the former Soviet Union, the Judgment of the People, with his iconic hammer and sickle, became discredited when he was reported to have attempted to assassinate former Soviet Premier Gorbachev in an effort to stop the collapse of the communist paradise. He was stopped by members of his own super team and disgraced before the people who once adored him. Blaming the capitalists from the West for the destruction of his beloved Motherland, Judgment, as he now called himself, was determined to destroy the United States in retaliation. Luckily, a variety of heroes including Titan, who Judgment repeatedly called ‘a lap dog of capitalism’ for his frequent commercial enterprises, rose up to stop the mad Russian. At some point during Z-Day, Judgment appears to have become infected and has ironically made his lair in the tallest tower of the financial district, preying on the working man, rather than protecting him.

**\<H3\>The Ascended B-Listers**

As B-Listers are, aside from zombies, the key element of **Rotted Capes**, you’ll need to understand what they were before the Z-Day. In general terms, B-Listers were attached to A-Listers as sidekicks or minions, but there are other ways B-Listers might have lived in the Glory Days. Here are a few ideas.

-   The B-Lister ignored her power. After all, with A-Listers around who needed a hero that could swim really fast? Even if she wanted to be a Hero, the A-Lister villains were just too powerful. It was better to live as a Bystander.
-   The B-Lister was a minor Hero. Sure, he couldn’t fight in the big leagues, but there were many criminals that lacked superpowers. Even a single power or martial training was often enough, combined with physical training, an awesome costume, and a scary reputation, to take down “street level” foes.
-   The B-Lister was a minor Villain. Maybe she was a mob boss or worked as a chief enforcer. Maybe she was a cat burglar that used her power to pull off lucrative crimes while staying off the radar of A-Lister heroes. Maybe she was a bit of an anti-hero, enough so that A-Listers generally left her alone.
-   The B-Lister was a police officer. She used her powers for law-enforcement.
-   The B-Lister was a celebrity. A B-Lister with emotion control could be a charismatic preacher/speaker, while a B-Lister with mind control might be a politician. Attractive B-Listers that can do their own stunts would be in demand in Hollywood.
-   The B-Lister’s power didn’t manifest until after the Z-Day. Maybe his power manifested at adolescence or the stress of the world collapsing caused it. Maybe he found a discarded piece of super equipment from an A-Lister. Maybe he took to martial training in order to survive in the zombie aftermath.

In addition to determining what the B-Lister did before Z-Day, you’ll need to determine what happened to her afterwards. Some B-Listers obviously don’t make it and many become super zombies. Others may attach themselves to enclaves or wander the countryside alone. Many will form teams with other B-Listers, whether they used to be friend or foe. Some may even continue being super-villains, offering protection in return for service.

**\<H3\>Paradigm B-Listers**

The following is a list of B-Listers currently roaming the Paradigm City environs. Most of them could be considered allies, although it wouldn’t take much to goad any of them into a fight if one isn’t careful. Some enclaves just aren’t big enough for two B-Listers.

**\<h4\>The Torch:** Becca Rose was a young lounge singer that discovered she could literally light up a stage. She was soon taken under Lady Liberty’s wing as the Torch, a hero that could surround herself in a sheath of fire and hurl fire bolts. When Z-Day hit she protected citizens while Lady Liberty tried to confront the threat. When the city was lost she helped Lady Liberty establish an enclave. She became its chief protector when her mentor was turned.

**\<h4\>The Executioner:** John North was an enforcer for the Richmond Mob. While he had no powers, he carried around a lot of lethal hardware and soon became known as the Executioner. After Z-Day hit he used everything he had to gun down as many zombies as he could. Rather than join an enclave, it’s said that the Executioner prowls the area, uncovering weapons and ammo and using them to destroy more zombies.

**\<h4\>The Shield:** Gabrielle Gomez was a pilot in the air force when a meteor struck her jet during a routine exercise and knocked her jet out of control. She would have crashed had the Sentinel not caught the jet, but the meteor exploded. Somehow, the Sentinel returned to the ground with an unharmed Gabrielle. The Sentinel got permission to take Gabrielle to ParaChem to run some tests. He discovered that Gabrielle could reflexively emit a force field. Gabrielle soon found herself fighting crime alongside the Sentinel as the Shield. Unfortunately, she discovered soon after Z-Day that her force field did not make her immune to infections.

**\<h4\>The Defender:** Sasha Lin was a high school student in a rough neighborhood; she took martial arts classes for self-defense. When one of her friends was killed in a drug deal gone wrong, Sasha determined never to let that happen again, not in her neighborhood. She pushed her training and became the Defender, using valuables taken from “bad guys” to bankroll a bullet-proof cat suit and a collapsible metal staff. She currently protects a small enclave near her old neighborhood, trading in the bludgeoning staff for a dual-bladed sword-staff (the better to hunt zombies with).

**\<h4\>Silver Star:** Shooting Star’s protégé, Tom Sawyer had the rather less impressive ability to create glittery sparkles that could temporarily blind and confuse opponents. While of limited use against super-villains, Silver Star soon discovered that his power did slow zombies down long enough for people to escape. He carries a machete to take full advantage of a distracted zombie. Currently, he and Red Falcon protect a large caravan.

**\<h4\>Red Falcon:** Ming Chou was a burglar that purchased a flying harness from Professor Gojkovik to further his crimes. He ran afoul of Shooting Star who captured him and then interceded on his behalf to reduce his sentence if he pledged to work with underprivileged youth. Red Falcon agreed and had been doing so for several months before Z-Day. He joined forces as Shooting Star’s protégé to protect a caravan.

**\<h4\>Cherry Tree:** Amber Myers was an angry young college student that didn’t believe in “the system.” One day, when challenging a professor in class whether she really believed what she was espousing, the professor candidly admitted that she usually just parrots whatever her political party was promoting. The professor lost her job during the resulting fallout and Amber realized that she could compel anyone to tell the truth. She became a political activist and adopted the identity of Cherry Tree after the legendary incident with a young George Washington. After Z-Day, she’s discovered that her power is useless against zombies but can hold an enclave together or tear it apart based on how she uses it.

**\<h4\>Shotgun:** Gary Bachman was just a shoe salesman when Z-Day came. Frightened, he abandoned co-workers, family, and friends alike to hide from the zombie menace. Gary wasn’t proud of his actions and, once he realized the full extent of what was happening, loathed himself for being such a coward. While foraging, Gary came across a large blast rifle that had belonged to Gearjack. It was solar-powered and thus self-reloading. Calling himself Shotgun, Gary now moves from enclave to enclave protecting people.

**\<h4\>Bullfrog:** Arthur “Artie” King was a bouncer at the Speakeasy, a themed restaurant that covered the early twentieth century. Many former heroes and their descendants loaned costumes and equipment to the restaurant; most such items were either fake replicas or no longer functional. Artie was thrilled to discover that the Frog’s old outfit still had some bounce in it. He stole the costume during the Z-Day fallout. Artie had to stretch the costume over his thick, muscular build and decided to call himself Bullfrog. He currently protects a medium-sized enclave.

**\<H1\>Law Enforcement**

Another consideration to make for your series city is the nature of law enforcement. Were the police equipped to deal with super beings or did they largely stay out of the way and call in the military when things got too rough? Were actual super beings part of the police force?

In any case, survivors from law enforcement probably play a big role in an enclave, protecting Bystanders as they already have or even take control of the leadership (e.g. the local police chief is now enclave leader).

If law enforcers were largely irrelevant in the Glory Days, then any survivors may revel in the new order. A-Listers could ignore them; B-Listers can’t. Weapons that used to be completely ineffective are now effective most of the time.

If the law enforcers did have the resources to deal with super beings, then those resources may either be with the enclave or still in the city; another treasure to be looted. Members of Super SWAT teams may even be B-Listers themselves in the zombie aftermath.

Given the apocalyptic nature of Z-Day, it’s likely that the National Guard or even the national armed forces were brought in to contain the threat. This means that the city is littered with military hardware, some of which has filtered into the enclaves. Scavengers love military equipment as they have a high barter value.

**\<H2\>Paradigm City – Law Enforcement**

Early on, Paradigm City realized the need for a stronger police force in the face of increasing super activity. Prior to World War II, submachine guns were often enough, as the “costumed heroes” weren’t much more than heroes and villains with intense physical training, and the occasional truly superhuman was often held in check by other costumed heroes.

In 1975 the state governor sought to end the super-villain problem while allaying the citizens’ concerns by putting a National Guard base just north of the city. The National Guard had all of the special weapons and equipment the state could afford to give it, and the local Guard Commander was only a phone call and a few minutes away from the Paradigm mayor. This arrangement proved effective later in the year when a National Guard “scramjet” destroyed several elemental creatures created by the super-villain “Magister Maximus” Diabolus.

Since that time, Guidry National Guard Base became the best-armed National Guard installation in the state. It eventually boasted a wing of space-capable super-aircraft, a dozen specially armed tanks, and three battle-suited troopers.

When Z-Day hit, Guidry sprang into action and was responsible for most of the counterattacks and targeted damage (such as the city bridges) in Paradigm City. The base itself became a sanctuary. Unfortunately, in spite of its vast capabilities Guidry was unprepared for such a large scale threat and collapsed within a few months, completely overrun with zombies.

**\<H1\>The Neighborhood**

In addition to the city and its suburbs, you’ll also want to note any distinguishing areas. Nearby military bases are big, as are “big box villages,” shopping malls, and supermarkets. Many of these are already CFB but may contain loot if the zombie infestation in the area is heavy.

Floating sanctuaries are also possible around port cities. Unless zombies are proficient swimmers (most aren’t) a boat can provide great protection for an enclave. Similarly, penthouses also offer great protection so long as an enclave can hold off super zombies.

**\<H2\>Paradigm City – The Neighborhood**

**\<h3\>Sunrise Medical Center:** Sitting on the Blue River just north of the zoological gardens, the Sunrise Medical Center was one of the premier medical facilities in the Midwest, if not the entire country (The Ronin was responsible for many donations and ParaChem donated a wing). It’s been mostly picked clean and generally considered CFB, although this has more to do with the rumor that a super zombie has made it her lair. Intrepid looters can usually find something worth bringing back to the enclave, assuming that they do return.

**\<h3\>Guidry Airfield:** Home of a former National Guard Base, Guidry airfield lies a few miles north of the city. Most of its airplanes were either taken or wrecked along the airstrips during the Z-Day attack, but there are enough pieces available for a gearhead to patch a working plane together. Unfortunately, most of the oil was scavenged by local enclaves as anti-zombie weapons.

**\<h3\>PC International Airport:** Located on the outskirts of the city, Paradigm City International Airport once served as a major hub to a few major airlines and serviced a variety of flights from around the US and the world. Since the advent of Z-Day, the airport was quickly deserted as desperate citizens and visitors eager to escape the plague jammed the terminals. Among those harried travelers were some of the infected and as delays and cancellations forced herds of people gather close together, they presented a tasty smorgasbord for the newly Risen! Most avoid the airport due to the hordes of zombies trapped in a confined space, but there are still those who wish to brave it for the untapped riches in fuel, tools and spare parts that lie in the hangars.

**\<h3\>The Museum of Antiquities and Natural History:** Located near the heart of the city, the museum was forever at the heart of several mysteries and adventures dealing with undead, mystic or cursed artifacts, and the sundry antediluvian sorcerer or megalomaniac risen from stasis. Since Z-Day, the exhibits wonders are wasted on the dead that walk its endless corridors. Rumors abound that this is where the Zombie Lord has his lair ,surrounded by his shambling subjects and the items he coveted while he was still among the living.

**\<h3\>Wildland Amusement Park:** Opened in 1986, the Wildland Amusement Park is a sprawling amusement and waterpark that celebrates the various eras of American history and included an American Safari experience where patrons could drive their cars through a park filled with American animals. Most of the animals have since been poached for food.

**\<h3\>Blue Crossing Shopping Center:** This is a collection of “Big Box” stores along the Blue River southwest of the city. It’s named for the bridge that crosses the Blue River and this bridge is still standing in the zombie aftermath. The Blue Crossing Shopping Center is a popular loot site for local enclaves, although it is rapidly approaching “closing sale” status.

**\<h3\>Stonevale Outlets:** This outlet mall sits on the western side of the Blue River six miles north of the city. It’s OFB, but primarily for clothing and footwear.

**\<h3\>Rabbit Creek Park:** This park sits about two miles west of the Stonvale Outlets and surrounds a large lake. A small enclave once made a lashed-together floating hotel in the center of the lake until they unfortunately discovered that zombies could walk underwater. Rabbit Creek itself heads southeast and joins with the Blue River in the northern part of Paradigm City.

**\<h3\>New Bethlehem Developmental Center**: This psychiatric hospital campus sits five miles southeast of the city and several super-villains were committed here since its establishment in 1936. Of particular note was the “Cinderblock,” the colloquial name for a Supermax prison built on the property for the most dangerous super-villains. Some say that the Cinderblock remains home to an enclave that uses the imprisoned super-villains for their own purposes.

\<sidebar\>

**Farming**

Zombies only seem interested in human flesh and don’t normally produce more collateral damage than a drunken barfly trying to make her way home. Theoretically, this means that an enclave could farm without worry that zombies would destroy the crops. Several enclaves in thinly populated areas do just that.

Farming is not without risks. Zombies have a way of slipping into fields, even when fenced, and are constant threats to farmers. Zombies also tend to move as a herd, meaning that dozens, even hundreds, may arrive and overrun a farm. Finally, super zombies have the cunning to know that, where there’s cultivated land, there’s meat.

Enclaves close to cities farm on a small scale. A Hotel may have a small garden and a caravan may have easily transportable plants. Such gardens won’t produce enough to sustain an enclave, but every fruit and vegetable helps.

\</sidebar\>

**\<H2\>City of the Dead**

**\<\<INSERT** ART Full page map of Paradigm City\>\>

So far, you’ve been concentrating on the city as it was; now it’s time to design the city as it is. Where in the city did the initial battle take place? It’s probably the area that’s taken the most amount of damage. Similarly, where did law enforcement or the military strike? These areas are likely peppered with bullet holes and missile craters, not to mention the occasional fallen building. Automobiles probably still litter the streets.

Other means of zombie containment may have also left their mark on the city. Bridges have been blown up, subways and regional rail lines destroyed; even a makeshift wall may surround a city or, when things got real desperate, a cowering enclave.

**\<H2\>Paradigm City – Areas of Note**

Paradigm City is huge, over 600 square miles. Prior to Z-Day it was one of the largest cities in America and a shining beacon of art and industry in spite of the economic downturn. It would be impossible to detail every major building and neighborhood. Instead, here is a selection of notable buildings and features of downtown Paradigm City.

**\<h3\>Centennial Park:** Centennial Park is a park that takes up the equivalent of eight city blocks. It is dominated by a monument that sits in the center, topped by a statue of the Sentinel looking over the city (at least until the skyscrapers of the 1970s and later dwarfed it).

**\<h3\>City Hall:** Set in the heart of the city on the north end of Centennial Park, Paradigm City Hall was largely untouched during Z-Day attack and, except for the occasional bullet hole and shattered glass, remains standing as it was in the Glory Days. The primary reason for this is that, anticipating super-villain attacks, City Hall’s frame was hardened and a heavy bunker built beneath it. It’s possible that the essential members of the City Government are still sitting in the bunker, but it’s just as possible that they were all slaughtered or turned before they made it to the bunker.

**\<h3\>The Metropolitan Museum:** Dominating the western part of Centennial Park with its neo-classical façade, “the Met” was an art and history museum. Many residents raided it for useful zombie-fighting tools such as medieval swords and axes. The façade is partially collapsed due to a stray missile being deflected by a super zombie. Many of the weapons and armor pillaged from the Met can still be found in surrounding enclaves.

**\<h3\>Vesper Hall:** Set on the south end of Centennial Park, the Vesper Square Music Hall is Paradigm City’s premiere location for operas and symphonies. Originally entitled City Music Hall, it became Centennial Music Hall when the city sold it to private investors in 1985 (after being disused for almost a decade). It became Vesper Hall in 1998, when philanthropist Anna Vesper gave it an endowment. Vesper Hall is where the tide seemed to turn against the super-heroes, as an entire concert audience turned into zombies. The entire building is now caved in, the victim of a surgical missile strike.

**\<h3\>Daily Crier Building:** Paradigm City’s biggest newspaper, the Daily Crier is still housed in the art deco building downtown that was built in the 1930s. It was once the best news source in the city before television broadcasts and the internet dwarfed it. It was purchased by NBC in the mid-1990s and acts as a print supplement to its parent broadcasts. The Daily Crier website launched in 1997 and was much more widely read than its print parent and the NBC news broadcasts. Most people recognized the building from the giant eagle launching itself over the building sign. Today that brass eagle lies battered and broken on the street in front of the building.

**\<h3\>ParaChem Labs:** A campus with many research facilities, ParaChem Labs was one of the premiere chemical research centers in America, if not the world. Part of it became the Weir School of Chemistry, attached to Paradigm University. Many B-Listers believe that ParaChem had something to do with Z-Day, although no evidence exists to confirm it. Notably, the original zombie nest in the city was located in Vesper Hall, not ParaChem Labs.

**\<h3\>Olympic Motors:** Promising an affordable electric automobile, Olympic Motors was given several grants, loans, and endowments in the latter part of the 2000s. Unfortunately, in spite of creating several successful fully electric cars, Olympic never solved the affordability issue nor did the city build the infrastructure necessary to make the cars convenient. Nevertheless, several electric cars are still sitting in the factory and don’t need gas to operate.

**\<h3\>The Tower:** The nickname for the headquarters of the Protectors, this large building was donated to the Protectors by wealthy dilettante Harold Soames (Soames was rumored to be a Protector in the 1980s). The Tower sits north of the zoo on the Blue River and many citizens fled to it via the Washington Bridge before the National Guard blew the bridge to contain the threat. Unfortunately, the Tower proved unsafe when the Z’d Protectors instinctively returned home. It now sits abandoned and partially collapsed.

**\<h3\>Skyway:** The Skyway connects most of the commercial buildings downtown via a pedestrian walkway on the second floor. It spans from Vesper Hall to the Paradigm City Convention Center and used to terminate in the west via a bridge that ended in a staircase down the zoo (this bridge was also destroyed by the National Guard).

**\<h3\>The Lone Tree Mall: T**he premiere shopping center in the city, the mall got its nickname from the enormous pine around which the mall was built. Four stories high, the mall boasted a bowling alley and multiplex theater in addition to the dozens of shops and eateries. The Lone Tree Mall is also the center of the city skyway and the subway. It’s literally possible to take a train into the city and arrive at one’s office without ever venturing outside.

**\<h3\>Metropolitan Subway:** Colloquially known as “the Metro Way,” this subway winds through downtown and most of the major neighborhoods, connecting with regional rail lines. The subway project is a new innovation; the earliest portions only date back to the mid-1990s. The impetus was super-villainy – the previous elevated trains proved tempting targets and, after an attack on one such train in 1993 caused numerous casualties, the City Council approved construction of a subway system. While the subway tunnels are still useful for loot teams that don’t want to risk exposure, they are just as suitable for roaming zombies (and a death trap if one encounters a super zombie).

**\<h3\>Riverside Park:** Wedged between Downtown and the Blue River, Riverside Park is the largest outdoor recreational area of the city with numerous walking and biking trails, a couple of ponds (frozen over for ice skating in winter) and three gorgeous bridges that have been used as staging areas for most Paradigm City wedding portraits. Numerous statues and monuments of historical figures, both superhero and mundane, are scattered throughout the park. Riverside Park was also host to a couple of ferries that had been remodeled as pleasure boats. Both were converted into cruisers after Z-Day.

**\<h3\>Sports Center**: Several arenas comprise the Paradigm City Sports Center south of the Paradigm inner beltway; the Second Financial Field (football), Paradigm Bank Park (baseball), and the CableNet Arena (ice hockey, basketball, and other events). A fourth arena, Paradigm Field, was the previous football field and slated to be demolished. With Z-Day, that never came to pass. At least one enclave still calls the Sports Center home.

**\<h3\>Paradigm City Convention Center:** This large building takes up two city blocks and is host to numerous conventions throughout the year. As it was close to the initial Z-Day attack its interior has only been lightly looted and chances are that the stock from any convention that happened to be going on inside the center when Z-Day came is still there, well-preserved and in large quantities.

**\<h3\>City Market:** A large indoor marketplace for food and wine purveyors, the ceiling is two stories high, making the skyway through here a promenade. Even after being closed for two years, the City Market still carries the smells of its wares. In spite of its location, City Market is still a destination for looters looking for better quality dry and canned goods. Rumor has it that the freezers still run, indicating a treasure trove of goods for the risky looter.

**\<h3\>Zoological Gardens:** Sitting just on the other side of the Blue River, the Zoological Gardens was a favorite spot for residents and tourists. While the zombies have no use for non-human flesh, the animals were purged for food stock by humans in the early months after Z-Day.

**\<h3\>Gaming Stores:** Paradigm City was home to two premiere comic and gaming stores, the Imperial Outpost and Game Board, which attracted an eclectic clientele from around the city and its suburbs, with an enormous selection of comics and games (the reading of those dealing with zombies and the zombie apocalypse may award the reader with a +1 bonus to their Survival skill at the Editor-in-Chief’s discretion). Additionally, one of these stores was rumored to hide one of GearJack’s secret workshops. With the armored hero Z’d and his whereabouts unknown, if this secret workshop were to be found, it could contain a treasure trove of equipment and supplies that might mean the difference between life and death for one of the beleaguered enclaves of Paradigm City.

**\<H2\>Legends and Artifacts**

The A-Listers were involved in some epic stuff back in the Glory Days and many of these legends persist in the present. One legend holds that “sanctuary” is actually an orbiting satellite that once served as the headquarters of a superhero team. Another legend tells of a sanctuary that was a super-villain’s private island.

In addition, artifacts tend to be found at the places of which the legends speak. If the Wrecker made a heroic last stand to keep the zombie horde off fleeing Bystanders, then chances are his Hammer of Destruction is still lying near the spot. Similarly, the Alchemist’s utility belt may still be in the center of town where he fell from the clock tower during an epic battle with the War Monger super zombie.

**\<H2\>Paradigm City – Legends and Artifacts**

As befitting a city of legends, Paradigm City has bits and pieces of super-equipment and headquarters strewn about. Of these fragments legends are made and many B-Listers and Bystander looters are willing to brave the deserted, zombie-ridden city to find them.

Note that all of these legends are just that, legends. Any artifacts may or may not exist and the entire incident or legend may just be a rumor. There’s something comforting in knowing that evolved zombies may not want to eat you, or that a cure has been discovered. Such legends have a way of sticking around even in the face of massive evidence to the contrary.

**\<h3\>Patient Zero:** Since Z-Day, rumors have persisted that there is a Patient Zero and that he or she may be in Paradigm City. The rumors also state that this patient may hold the cure for the zombie plague and the cure might be as easy as shooting Patient Zero. Others scoff at the idea, claiming that the Z-Day had nothing to do with an initial patient but was more likely a trans-dimensional breach or alien attack.

**\<h3\>The Cure:** It’s inevitable that this legend frequently pops up. The usual variations include a secret bunker and three or four degrees of separation between meeting a “cured B-Lister” or messenger. Skeptics point out that many victims may think they’ve turned when a last-minute burning saves them; this did not stop at least three small enclaves from being wiped out while venturing into the city to find the miracle cure.

**\<h3\>Evolution?:** There are reports that a small cabal of “mundane” zombies have actually retained their human intelligence and are now organizing into a new civilization. It’s also rumored that this group isn’t necessarily hostile to humanity. Is this true and, if so, should the humans try to destroy them or support them?

**\<h3\>Professor Gojkovic’s Hidden Base:** Having plagued Paradigm City for decades Professor Gojkovik is believed to have a base hidden somewhere near the city and that this base may contain many items useful against zombies and super zombies.

**\<h3\>Gearjack’s Battle Suit:** Everyone knows that Gearjack died after being forced to remove his battle suit. What no one is certain of is where he left it or, more accurately, where the super zombie that attacked the empty suit left it. Some people believe that the intact suit is laying about waiting for someone to re-energize it, while others believe that the battle suit was shattered, leaving lootable pieces all over the city.

**\<h3\>Speakeasy Pickings:** Prior to Z-Day, the Speakeasy was a bar-restaurant that showcased superheroes and had several pieces of superhero memorabilia, some of it still operational if one has the secret codes or know-how to reactivate them. Many such items were looted from the Speakeasy and dropped nearby when their new owners couldn’t figure out how to use them.

**\<h3\>Robotic Salvation:** There are many variations of this popular legend. It is believed that a super-villain (Mad Hatter, or Professor Gojkovik are the usual candidates) was building a robot army somewhere within Paradigm City before Z-Day hit. If this army can be found then it may be programmed to hunt zombies. Such an army would have nothing to fear from infection. A few versions of this legend warn that activating the robot army would be a mixed blessing, as it would attack human and zombie alike.

**\<h3\>Frozen A-Listers:** This legend states that, during the initial Z-Day attack, Cold Snap realized that the heroes could not win and encased himself and several other heroes in ice, assuming that the zombies could not get to them. Legend has it that the ice tombs still exist somewhere along the city Skyway; several theories abound as to how Cold Snap is able to keep the heroes frozen in warm weather and whether anyone so entombed is still alive.

**\<h3\>Guidry’s Arsenal:** While Guidry National Guard Base collapsed over a year ago, it is believed to still hold a number of weapons caches and possibly secure bunkers. Even now, looters still can’t reach the lower levels. Perhaps some remnant of the National Guard still huddles within, waiting for the appropriate time to emerge and take the fight back to the zombies.

**\<h3\>Cyberzombie:** There’s a legend that a cyborg super-villain, possibly Iron Star, was turned into a super zombie but the mechanical part of his brain has enabled the cyberzombie to maintain his intellect. He now hunts zombies and super zombies without fear of infection. Unfortunately, he still needs human flesh to survive and regrettably takes them when he needs them. Such a creature would be a powerful ally for an enclave, so long as they can tolerate his eating habits.

**\<h3\>Purifiers:** Not all humans struggle for salvation. There are those that believe this world is damned and that the best thing they can do is remove what is left of humanity, freeing their souls to ascend to Heaven rather than be consumed by the forces of Hell and condemned to roam the world forever. No one is certain whether this group exists or what motivates them; nevertheless the rumor of such a group makes enclaves even more suspicious of strangers.

**\<h3\>The Hair of Recovery:** It’s rumored that Professor Gojkovik is not only still alive, but also possesses the ability to clone people, even after they’ve been turned. The secret is in their hair which, as “dead organic matter,” is immune to the zombie virus. This hair can be used to clone a healthy replacement with all of the superpowers of the original. Unfortunately, it has no memories, but the “Clone Doctor” can download previously taped memories into it, either from the original (with any memories gained after the taping lost), or another “donor.” Needless to say, the implications of such technology existing can enormously reshape the series.

\<\<INSERT ART Balor vs Titan\>\>

**\<H1\>Building Issues**

Creating **Rotted Capes** issues (more commonly called “adventures”) may seem easy at first, especially for “beer and pretzels” games. Simply create an area, populate it with zombies and the occasional super zombie, give the heroes a goal, and let them loose.

Crafting issues for a continuing series can be quite a bit of work. While the “beer and pretzels” formula can be used again and again, it won’t be long before your players feel the sameness. One way to change things up is to think about your series city and the types of situations that your heroes would logically find themselves facing.

This section is designed to help you design interesting **Rotted Capes** adventures. In addition, we offer several plot hooks for you to flesh out and create full issues.

\<sidebar\>

**Raiding Maps**

**Rotted Capes** takes place in a largely abandoned (at least by the living) version of our own world. This means that many modern building plans and layouts can be repurposed for **Rotted Capes**. Need a mall? Use the floor plan of any major mall – its website will give you at least the pedestrian areas, leaving you to fill in the rest according to logic (and you can always make those areas inaccessible rubble). Raiding a big box store? Just use one you go to regularly; it’s easy to visualize.

Another good source of maps can come from other RPG products, so long as they take place in the modern day. Historical floor plans also work; many buildings are kept up and upgraded as necessary (an old Georgian building may have window air conditioners and lines running for cable and internet access).

\</sidebar\>

**\<H2\>Basic Issue Template**

At its core, **Rotted Capes** has a very simple premise: the B-Listers must maintain the survival of their enclave (yes, it’s possible that the B-Listers don’t have an enclave but that’s a tangent; most series will revolve around an enclave). Here’s how you can quickly and efficiently design Rotted Capes issues.

**\<H2\>Build your Sandbox**

In roleplaying parlance, a “sandbox” is the area in which the B-Listers are allowed to travel. Even if you plan on writing very focused issues with little room for wandering, you’re going to want to understand the neighborhood. Here are the following factors to keep in mind.

**\<h3\>Series city:** Are your B-Listers from Paradigm City or somewhere else? What neighborhoods and shopping centers exist around it? Are there any special locations? Who were the A-Listers and B-Listers? Are there any Clear Zones?

**\<h3\>Enclaves:** How big is the enclave? What kind of government does it have? What resources are available? Where is it located? How do your B-Listers fit in the enclave? Are there other enclaves nearby? How does your enclave get along with them?

**\<H3\>Set a Goal**

Every issue in **Rotted Capes** should have a goal, something the B-Listers need to do or fail to do in order to bring the issue to a conclusion. This goal should be simply stated; “escort the loot team to the supermarket and back” or “rescue the Bystanders trapped in a shopping mall” make fine goals.

**\<h3\>Set Obstacles**

Escorting a loot team to the supermarket wouldn’t be much of an issue if nothing happened along the way to complicate things. How many zombie assaults must the loot team endure? Is there a super zombie in the area? Is there something that makes the journey itself more difficult, such as a destroyed bridge or rough terrain?

For single session issues, it’s best to limit obstacles to three-five scenes. This ensures that you’ll be able to wrap up the issue within a single evening. You can simply multiply this number for multiple sessions.

**\<H3\>Set Plot Twists**

Plot twists or surprises are things that the B-Listers must deal with that they hadn’t anticipated. A traitor within the loot team is one example; so is the fact that a major zombie horde is heading to the supermarket, making the mission a race against time. Perhaps the supermarket is almost CFB and a rival enclave loot team is trying to secure the same loot (and is willing to fight for it). Perhaps an old super-villain nemesis picks now to settle an old score with the B-Listers.

A plot twist can also be a personal drama. Perhaps a love triangle has heated up and the B-Lister involved has to protect her rival on the loot team.

**\<H3\>Create an Endpoint**

An endpoint is the place in the issue that the B-Listers must get to in order to end the issue. This is usually the return to the enclave, but that may not necessarily be the case, especially if the enclave itself is under attack (in which case the endpoint is a safe distance the enclave must travel). Once the endpoint is reached or circumstances make it impossible to reach, the issue is finished and the B-Listers are given an appropriate experience point award.

You may wish to create multiple endpoints if it’s possible to end the issue in other ways other than success or failure. In a base under siege example, one endpoint may be ending the zombie threat while another is getting the Bystanders to safety from an overrun Hotel.

**\<H3\>The Graphic Novel Treatment**

Simply put, a graphic novel is simply an issue with a lot more meat. Generally, the Editor-in-Chief makes the plot elements darker and grittier (steering away from camp), but this need not be the case. A graphic novel has more obstacles, plot twists, and personal story arcs than the average adventure.

Taking that into consideration, it should come as no surprise that a graphic novel is going to take several sessions to complete. You’ll probably plot it like a miniseries although rather than discrete issues you’ll have something more analogous to the chapters of a book. Each chapter builds on the previous one and sets things in motion to be resolved in future chapters.

Graphic novels aren’t shy about making sweeping changes to B-Listers, Bystanders, and enclaves. The stakes are raised to accentuate the grittiness. Throughout the course of the story many B-Listers and Bystanders may die or be permanently altered; enclaves could get decimated or destroyed. It’s not uncommon for an idealistic B-Lister to be thoroughly broken by the end of a graphic novel or for an amoral anti-hero to find something to believe in (oftentimes just in time for a heroic death).

**\<H3\>Building a Miniseries**

An issue generally has one main plot. A miniseries is several issues tied together in a short story arc. Generally speaking, a mini-series usually consists of three to six issues with a story arc that starts with the first issue and is resolved in the last issue.

Unlike a full series, the story arc of a miniseries is often tightly plotted; it may even be a single plotline that simply takes a long time to resolve. In such cases subplots can often fill the role of single issues. A good example of a miniseries is moving an enclave from one location to the next. The first part of the story involves safely evacuating the Bystanders when their old Hotel is compromised, protecting the Caravan on the road while scouting for a new Hotel, making the new Hotel safe, and finally taking care of the super zombie that’s been hounding the enclave since it led the attack on the old Hotel.

In most cases, a miniseries is a succession of related issues that build towards a satisfying conclusion. You might have as a story arc a rebellious Bystander looking to take over the Leadership. While the B-Listers spend each episode performing missions, the rebel is gathering resources and allies for a coup. In the final episode the coup is sprung and the B-Listers have to support a side.

One of the things that make a miniseries desirable is that it’s focused. With a finite number of sessions to plot a story arc, an Editor-in-Chief can corral her best ideas and incorporate them; there’s no room for padding. You also, hopefully, leave your players wanting more once the miniseries is over.

**\<H3\>Building a Series**

A series is simply a succession of issues or miniseries. There may be an overall story arc (or multiple story arcs) or there may be none at all; the series is simply a collection of issues on survival in the zombie aftermath.

The benefit of an unconnected series is that each episode provides closure if the series needs to end; there’s no story arcs left hanging and the players can easily pick up where they left off should the series start again.

An unconnected series also maintains unpredictability. With a story arc, your players generally have some idea of where you’re heading after a few issues. With a series, you’re limited only by your whims. In a sense, this is the best way to play **Rotted Capes**, as, like in the zombie horror genre, the unpredictability fosters uncertainty and your players will have no idea what you’re going to throw at them next.

**\<H1\>Tipping the Balance?**

**Rotted Capes** is a fusion of the superhero and zombie genres. One way to differentiate adventures is to emphasize one genre over the other (there can be alternating emphases for each adventure). An adventure with the same goal can feel very different if the Editor-in-Chief chooses to run it as a superhero slugfest versus a zombie survival scenario.

For example, let’s say that the adventure involves sneaking into an old villain lair and stealing a power source that the enclave needs. In a superhero-emphasized adventure, the heroes fight their way through zombies, enter the lair, and face a super zombie. Once the threats are neutralized, the adventure is over.

In a zombie survival scenario, the focus is more on the war of attrition. The vehicle that the heroes used to get to the lair is destroyed. The heroes fight their way to the lair (ticking off bullets as they go) only to discover that the power source is partially depleted. The lair also has a super vehicle, but using the power source to power it depletes it further. Do the heroes take the risk or do they take the more dangerous route of trying to bring the power source back on foot?

More broadly, the Editor-in-Chief needs to decide on the tone of her campaign, which ranges from “camp” to “gritty.” Both the superhero and zombie genres have drifted between both. The 1960s **Batman** television series and the 1999 film **Mystery Men** is camp, as is the 1992 time-traveling zombie movie **Army of Darkness**. The 1986 graphic novel **Watchmen** (and its film adaptation) and the ongoing **Walking Dead** television series tend toward “gritty” portrayals.

\<sidebar\>

**Doesn’t “B-Lister” imply camp?**

When playtesting **Rotted Capes** many players assumed that the game was camp because of the term “B-Lister.” While that’s certainly one valid interpretation, we designed **Rotted Capes** with the idea that the players would be playing low-powered heroes, as the powerful ones got killed or infected soon after Z-Day. We wanted to draw a distinction between those heroes and the ones that weren’t quite ready for prime time. These “B-Listers,” or “sidekicks” were entrusted with keeping Bystanders safe (avoiding rather than confronting zombies) and had to step into the void left by the A-Listers.

If you’re running a gritty series and the term “B-Lister” is throwing your players off, replace it. Just call the player characters “heroes” and, if you need a term, call the A-Listers “mega heroes.” Sometimes all it takes is a word substitution to change the feel of your campaign.

\</sidebar\>

**\<H2\>Camp**

A “camp” style doesn’t take itself too seriously; at its most extreme it doesn’t take anything seriously. Tropes are exaggerated and dark moments, such as a Bystander or B-Lister getting killed or infected, are often played for laughs.

While they often walk hand in hand, camp is not necessarily comedy. The series need not become farcical nor does the Editor-in-Chief need to introduce situations merely for a few chuckles. The keys to camp are “absurdity” and “naivety.”

The entire premise of **Rotted Capes** fits the definition of absurdity. The notion of a superhero world that followed the four-color tropes of superhero comic books until a zombie apocalypse turned the world upside down can hardly be described as anything else. That said the absurd premise does not necessarily make your series of **Rotted Capes** campy. The circumstances and situations derived from the presence must also be designed with camp in mind. The closer you hew to realism, the less campy it becomes.

For example, assume that you and a handful of friends wake up tomorrow and discover you have superpowers. Are you immediately going to don spandex bodysuits and fight crime? Are you going to create a thematic name and catchphrase? Do the citizens of your town immediately accept you as a superhero? The realistic answer to all of these questions is “no.” If you were in a campy universe, however, then the answer would be “yes.”

Naivety, as broadly defined here, is the “buy-in” of all characters involved of the absurd premise and situations. They react as if such premises were normal. In a full-on campy series, the B-Listers may, true to their nickname, have powers of dubious utility, such as the ability to read minds only when someone is speaking, the ability to conjure a cigarette-lighter sized flame, or the ability to glide on windy days. Such B-Listers actually end up acting like pre-mutant costumed heroes; they are athletic martial artists whose powers very occasionally become useful. Still, they don themed costumes, come up with catch-phrases, and fight crime (and zombies), because they were gifted with a power and feel the responsibility to use it for good.

B-Listers generally fall into two categories: white hats and black hats. Heroes are heroes and villains are villains. Heroes want to make this rotten world a better place; villains want to exploit it. This is not to say that heroes and villains can’t work together (indeed, the very premise of **Rotted Capes** presumes that players can be heroes or villains from the Glory Days now banding together for survival). Instead, a camp series presumes that all characters can easily identify each other unless a failure to do so is the plot point of an issue.

For example, perhaps during the Glory Days the Kitten was a cat burglar who had a good heart but extreme kleptomania that fueled her crimes. In the zombie aftermath, the Kitten is now a B-Lister that works with the rest of the team, but her teammates know that if they come across anything shiny she’ll risk anything to acquire it. They also know that she has a secret stash of purloined items somewhere and, with a wink and a nod, occasionally ask the Kitten if she’d be able to procure some immediately useful item for them, knowing full well that she’s just going to raid her stash.

Bystanders, too, have to buy into the camp. They don’t make fun of the absurdly tight costumes (or, in the case of many female heroes, the impractical “fetish” outfits that leave too much flesh exposed and too little to the imagination). Obviously, wearing such an outfit would be suicidal when facing infectious zombies, but in a camp series a female hero wearing the equivalent of a bikini swimsuit doesn’t risk infection any more than her head-to-toe clad teammates.

Campy series don’t worry about the nitty-gritty of realistic survival *unless* it is a plot point in the current issue. Bystanders in an enclave aren’t constantly starving; a heavy-weight Bystander with a sweet tooth and pockets filled with favorite candies is comic relief, not a constant target of hungry B-Listers. When he is targeted, it is usually by the occasional pick-pocket or con artist that swindles him out of his candy, even after the Bystander has declared “she won’t get me next time.”

Campy enclaves tend to be pockets of order in the zombie aftermath. B-Listers aren’t expected to serve a ruthless regime; if one emerges, it is the plot point of an issue and must be dealt with in a way to return the enclave to normal operations. At all times, the B-Listers should be allowed to be heroes.

Thus far, we’ve concentrated on the camp superhero, but zombie survival can be played for camp as well. When a B-Lister goes into the city for supplies, she isn’t accosted by generic zombies; she’s attacked by a group of zombies that used to be ex-boyfriends, co-workers, or bosses (usually not family; there’s often little camp value in thinking of one’s loved ones as creatures needing to be killed).

Similarly, the Enclave’s efforts at survival are more easily maintained than in a gritty survival series. Maybe the enclave has to deal with a zombie infestation along the road to a known food source, but once the menace is cleared the looters can load up and the enclave is saved. There’s never a chance that they get there and find the place picked clean.

As another campy example of zombie survival, the enclave Hotel may be in little danger of being overrun and is connected to the city via subway. The subway still works and each morning the scavengers line up at the station and discuss the day’s business as if they were still Glory Days commuters. They ride the train into the city, spend the day salvaging and dealing with zombies, and load the items they’ve scavenged into the train for transport. They return home as night falls, lamenting lost comrades as “retired.”

For B-Listers, the focus of most issues is super zombies. A former A-Lister returns as an undead menace and must be dealt with by the B-Listers. Being camp, the super zombie usually retains any fatal flaws it had in life; the B-Listers must use this fatal flaw against it in order to survive.

Many of the personal issues described in the **Enclaves** section work well in camp series. A true hero does have to balance his personal life against his costumed one. In a camp series, though, loved ones tend to remain true; a neglected significant other may tease his partner that he may look elsewhere for companionship, but he’s never truly serious. When such a circumstance does occur, it’s from the unwanted advances of the B-Lister’s rival.

\<sidebar\>

**Gun Control**

One element crucial to both the camp and gritty styles is gun control. Simply put, access to a lot of weapons moves the emphasis from superpowers to hardware. Rather than rely on their powers, heroes will simply “weapon up” to the point where they are walking weapons lockers rather than B-Listers. This violates the principles of both the camp and gritty styles, for different reasons.

In a camp series, B-Listers rarely use guns because it isn’t part of their image. A B-Lister that was a two-fisted hero in the Glory Days is likely to remain a two-fisted hero in the zombie aftermath, although she is expected to take a few more precautions. She isn’t likely to whip out a gun at the first sign of trouble and may even argue against their use in many situations.

In a gritty series, B-Listers are more likely to reach for the guns, but circumstances often give them pause. Bullets are hard to come by and, absent a regular cleaning regimen, guns have a tendency to jam after a few uses. Small caliber weapons have a difficult time dropping zombies. Even the Deathwatch would prefer to use more primitive weapons, such as swords and bows, for regular patrols, keeping the guns safe until they are truly needed.

Still, players being players, it’s likely that their B-Listers are going to arm up at the first opportunity. The Editor-in-Chief can control this by limiting the amount of ammo available. This isn’t unrealistic; most ammunition was used up in the hours and days after the Z-Day hit and frightened survivors rarely worry about their bullet count when the zombies are marching on them.

Remember too that, as a scarce resource, guns and ammo are valued. There are many Bystanders that would like to get their hands on them and wouldn’t hesitate to use subterfuge or violence to get them. Many enclaves keep a close eye on their firearms and supplies, but keeping things in one place causes its own problems. One flood, explosion, or zombie infestation could make the weapons and ammo unusable.

\</sidebar\>

**\<H2\>Gritty**

**\<\<INSERT** ART: A “gritty” Hero looking into a mirror and seeing his “Campy” version.\>\>

The “gritty” style puts a heavy emphasis on realism. The B-Listers are heroes that have to help an enclave of frightened Bystanders struggling to survive in a world gone mad.

In a gritty series, the focus is more on the day-to-day struggles of survival rather than the super zombie-of-the-week. Several issues may pass between super zombie sightings, although regular zombies are a constant threat. This is a subtle and crucial change; in camp, zombies are cannon fodder that inconveniences the B-Listers before the main event when the super zombie arrives. In gritty campaigns, the regular zombies are the main threat and when a super zombie does rear its undead head in the enclave’s direction, it ups the level of danger to almost overwhelming proportions.

Personal issues certainly play a part in gritty series, but they have to share time with the issues of maintaining an enclave. If the enclave is in a hotel, then the B-Listers will be involved in helping the Deathwatch maintain the perimeter, shoring up defensive walls, and securing food and supplies. The B-Listers are less “heroes” and more of an enclave resource. The enclave government understands that B-Listers need the enclave just as much as the enclave needs them, perhaps more so. The threat of exile can be used to keep B-Listers in line.

A gritty series puts a lot of emphasis on scarcity. Food, clothing, and weapons are jealously guarded, as are working cellphones, smartphones, and laptops (one could pull from real world headlines and do a little social commentary on the obsession with getting (and stealing) the latest fashionable footwear). Enclaves perceived to have more of these things would be the envy of other enclaves and cause friction amongst them.

A gritty series also makes some actions questionable. A group of B-Listers may escort a Loot Team through dangerous territory, facing hordes of zombies and losing several Bystanders along the way, take on a super zombie and lose one or two B-Listers, only to get to their destination, a supermarket, and find that it’s already been mostly picked clean. Was all of that worth a few cans of pasta meals and green beans?

When it comes to drama, there are no white hats and black hats; everyone wears shades of gray. Today’s hero could be tomorrow’s villain, and B-Listers and Bystanders constantly surprise themselves by taking stands opposite to what they thought they were capable of making. Such decisions are understandable, but they leave a bad taste.

It’s even worse for B-Listers. In a world that needs heroes, Bystanders look up to B-Listers as paragons of heroism. Each time a B-Lister reminds them that it’s not always the case, all B-Listers are diminished. Many B-Listers hold on to their Glory Days values not because they still believe in them, but because they want the Bystanders to believe in B-Listers. When even your heroes fall, what hope is there?

Of course, it’s possible to apply the gritty trope to B-Listers as well; they don’t need to be camp. Heroes in gritty series often dump the spandex for something more durable or fashionable, such as leather, Kevlar, or even a jumpsuit with a lot of pockets to keep all those great gadgets. Many heroes forego costumes altogether and, when necessary to disguise one’s appearance, take a page from the costumed heroes of the 1930s and adopt a simple domino mask or face-concealing scarf.

Gritty heroes often became heroes out of necessity; they took on the villains because they were the only ones who could. They tend to be pragmatic in approach, something that serves them well in the zombie aftermath. Many have psychological issues as well; what compels someone to put on a mask and become a crime fighter? Worse, what other issues might such a person have?

Gritty heroes generally aren’t content to stay on political sidelines. If an enclave Leader or government isn’t doing the job then the heroes won’t hesitate to step in and run the enclave themselves. Unfortunately, the cure is often worse than the disease, with the heroes becoming worse autocrats than the administration they replaced.

**\<H2\>Rotted Capes Tropes**

As mentioned in the **Introduction**, **Rotted Capes** is a fusion of the superhero and zombie genres. Deciding how far you want to push camp or grit is only part of setting the tone. You’ll also want to identify and incorporate the various tropes that make **Rotted Capes** unique from its parent genres while taking inspiration from them.

We’ve put common superhero and zombie horror tropes in the sidebars. We used these tropes when we blended them into **Rotted Capes**. If you decide that you want to lean more towards one genre or the other, these tropes lists should give you some guidance.

Now, without further ado, here are the blended tropes specific to **Rotted Capes**:

**Light Gray Hats:** B-Listers are generally heroes, even if they were super-villains in the Glory Days. For some, this is born out of necessity, as they couldn’t survive otherwise. Even the most ardent hero, however, sometimes has to make choices that she doesn’t feel comfortable with in order to keep Bystanders safe in an unforgiving world.

**Super-villains:** While the occasional super-villain is still out there, the “super-villain niche” is now occupied by super zombies. These creatures have all of the powers they had in life, but none of the personality. Super zombies can’t be reasoned with; they can only be avoided or destroyed.

**Costumed Heroes:** B-Listers still wear costumes and use codenames even if they no longer bother protecting their identities. Costumes are practical; they reduce the risk of zombie infection and they cover up burn scars. They are also good for identification, as most B-Listers have enough of a Glory Days reputation that strangers will recognize them. Many B-Listers adopt sturdier, more resilient versions of their old costumes, favoring heavy cloth or leather to spandex.

**Battle-Scarred:** While B-Listers still have the “ideal form,” it looks better with a costume on. Beneath, a significant portion of the B-Lister’s body is riddled with battle and burn scars. Most B-Listers also don’t have the time or equipment to keep their hair and body washed and teeth cleaned. B-Listers with heightened smell often have a difficult time around their peers.

**Renewable Resources:** While enclaves are pockets of civilization, they live in constant threat of losing the resources they have, from guns to food. The Deathwatch is very careful about what it expends to keep the enclave safe. B-Listers, on the other hand, tend to rely on their powers, which is a renewable resource. Many enclaves benefit by having one or more needs handled by a B-Lister with an appropriate power. Also, while the enclave runs low, there’s always a place somewhere nearby that is OFB. The enclave just needs to send a loot team to retrieve it.

**Small Victories:** The world has gone to the zombies. B-Listers have little chance of ending the threat or even holding firm; often the most they can do is buy time. Unlike the “level playing field” superhero trope, B-Listers often find themselves outclassed by zombie hordes or powerful super zombies. Still, the B-Listers do eke out small victories on a regular basis, enough to keep them going. Maybe they’ve taken out one super zombie, scored major loot, or discovered a hotel that will protect the enclave for another month or two.

**Enclave Drama:** B-Listers often have to deal with their enclave politics and personal relationships as much as with zombies. Such situations are often part of both the superhero and zombie horror genres and are covered quite extensively in the **Enclaves** section.

**Fatal Flaw:** Super zombies often retain the fatal flaws that they had in life and B-Listers can exploit that to the benefit.

**Bystanders:** All enclave members need protection from the B-Listers, even the capable ones. All it takes is one too many zombies or a super zombie to turn an armed-to-the-teeth Deathwatch soldier into a cowering Bystander.

**Tragic Retirement:** Because of their frequent and hazardous work, most B-Listers eventually become super zombies. Unfortunately, their former allies are often forced to kill them, especially since the new super zombie remembers where its old enclave is located.

\<sidebar\>

**Superhero Tropes**

The following tropes are common within the classic superhero comic book genre.

**Vigilante Desire:** The heroes aren’t content to let the police handle criminal activity. While the Ronin could shadow and observe a crime in progress, he isn’t content to call the police and let them handle it; he has to take down the bad guys on his own.

**Super-villains:** While super-villains aren’t necessary for superheroes to exist, they certainly encourage them. Super-villains are often flashier than the heroes and concoct grandiose plans that only a superhero can thwart.

**Moral Code:** Almost all superheroes follow a moral code that prevents them from killing or taking justice too much into their own hands. Strangely, this code often extends to super-villains as well. Kidnapped hostages are rarely abused or permanently injured.

**Reduced Lethality:** No matter what a hero’s personal code or villain’s scheme, superhero issues are rarely filled with lethal violence. Bystanders get kidnapped, minions get beaten up, and super-villains are imprisoned. Permanent injury or death is rare and, when it happens, it’s usually a plot point.

**Balancing Act:** Superheroes are more than just costumed vigilantes; they also have private lives with personal issues. These private lives can sometimes be, and usually are, more interesting than their super battles.

**Costumes:** The one clear distinguishing feature between superheroes and other heroic archetypes is the presence of costumes. Often spandex-tight and brightly colored (conceits owing their existence to the new color printing of the Golden Age as well as the fact that muscle definition can be more clearly seen and looks much better on an inked figure), costumes serve the purpose of announcing a hero’s presence while concealing her true identity.

**Ideal Form**: One of the reasons superheroes look so good in spandex is because they tend to have bodybuilder physiques and perfect proportions. All men are square-jawed and handsome with no signs of pattern male baldness, and all women are stunningly beautiful. This often extends to their non-powered significant others, family, and friends as well (unless specifically drawn against type). This is rarely treated as more than average within the superhero genre.

**Codenames**: Going hand in hand with the costume is the codename, the title a superhero uses when out in public. Codenames are usually chosen to fit the hero’s powers, a costume theme, or a symbol. Captain (later Major) Justice chose her name because of her military rank and desire to promote justice (as well as being the definition of her given name). Thunderbird chose his name because it reflects his Native American heritage (had he been going for a more thematic bird then he’d have chosen the Phoenix).

**Home City:** Most superheroes protect a specific area, usually a major city, from organized crime and super-villains. They can get very territorial about it when a visiting hero edges in on their turf, even to help. Such a home city usually gets the lion’s share of super-villain and alien attacks.

**Costume Adaptation:** For some reason, superhero costumes tend to be undamaged by superhero powers and sometimes adapt to accommodate them. A hero that can fire bolts of energy from his hands never burns off his glove, and a hero that can grow three times her size finds that her costume conveniently grows with her. Sometimes this costume adaptation is explained, but oftentimes it is just handled with a wink and a nod.

**Historically Insignificant:** In spite of superheroes springing up with strange powers and the ability to create super-scientific gadgets, they never manage to impact the world in a meaningful way. Gearjack may have invented an efficient electric car in 2002, but in the ensuing decade it has not managed to put a dent in the sales of internal combustion engines. Nor do superheroes have a major impact on historical events; many heroes participated in World War II, but the outcome is the same. Part of this is explained by the “cancel out” argument; the actions of superheroes and super-villains tend to cancel each other out as far as historical impact is concerned.

**Deathtraps:** Super-villains rarely kill a superhero outright. Instead, they stick them in an elaborate deathtrap and then leave them to their fate. They are often surprised when the heroes break out of them.

**Monologues:** Both superheroes and super-villains have a tendency to get long-winded. A super-villain enjoys gloating about his latest plan (as the superhero can’t possibly survive, right?) while superheroes often make great speeches in the heat of battle about the rightness of their cause or the dastardly deeds of their opposition.

**Pre-Team-Up Scrapping:** If two superheroes who’ve never met do meet, they often start fighting with each other. Sometimes this is due to mistaken identity (one hero is investigating a crime scene when the other shows up) and sometimes this is the superhero version of barroom boasting that ends in a fistfight. Often the two heroes patch things up in time to face the true super-villain of the issue together.

**Bystanders:** B-Listers often had to protect Bystanders in the Glory Days, as they lacked the power to protect themselves. Super-villains tended to exploit Bystanders that had personal relationships with the B-Listers.

**Level Playing Field**: It doesn’t matter if the super-villain is wearing a battlesuit and hurling balls of mystical energy, the acrobatic superhero armed with only her martial training and hollow metal staff can hold her own (especially if said hero is aware of the super-villain’s fatal flaw). If a superhero team goes against a super-villain tem, then enemies of roughly equivalent power levels face off against each other.

**Fatal Flaw:** Almost all superheroes and super-villains can be affected by something that renders their powers useless or weakens the hero or villain to a degree where she can be better affected by her opponents. Sometimes this is an attack type that the hero has no defense against, other times it is an object whose mere presence causes the villain to collapse and start dying.

\</sidebar\>

\<sidebar\>

**Zombie Horror Tropes**

The following tropes are common in the zombie horror genre. Some of these tropes are also from the related post-apocalypse genre.

**Gray Hats:** There are no heroes and villains, only humans and zombies. The humans struggle to survive in any way they can and this often leads to tensions and outright betrayal (“better you than me!”). They also come from all walks of life in every shape and age. It’s not always easy to tell who can be trusted and who will work against you.

**Survival, not Winning:** Zombie horror is about surviving until someone more powerful can save you or the threat disappears on its own. The protagonists rarely understand what is happening, much less how to defeat the zombies. Those protagonists that do try to go toe-to-toe with zombies usually end up as food or converted.

**Lethal World:** By its nature, zombie horror racks up a high lethality count. People are killed indiscriminately, regardless of whether they take precautions. Large communities of survivors are often completely destroyed, save for a token few, by the end of a zombie horror story. Most of the friends and family of the protagonists are either dead or turned, often before the story begins.

**Dwindling Resources:** Guns are handy, but eventually you’ll run out of bullets. Your car eventually runs out of gasoline, if it bothered to start in the first place.

**Living Dead:** While typically animated corpses, zombies tend to retain their senses. They can still see through their eyes and have a heightened sense of smell. More importantly they can eat flesh. These traits still occur even when an individual zombie’s body is in bad condition.

**Brains!** Flesh-eating zombies have a particular taste for human brains.

**Headshots:** Zombies can survive dismemberment, but being shot in the head (or brain) destroys them.

**Infectious:** Zombies can transmit their condition to the living. It is usually transmitted through a bite or scratch.

**Slow Shamble:** While averted in some more modern zombie films, traditionally zombies have a slow, shambling walk, easily identifying them from a distance. While such creatures can be easily outrun, they are effective killers due to their sheer numbers and the surprise factor (it isn’t so much that Bystanders get run down as much as they turn corners and run into zombies).

**Zombie Hordes:** One of the things that makes zombies so effective at killing is that they rarely hunt alone. Instead, they gather in great numbers and overwhelm an area, cutting off exits and pushing their prey into a corner in which they cannot escape.

**Zombies aren’t Cannibals:** Zombies never eat each other. Even if they bump into each other, both zombies simply shamble away.

**Doomed Base under Siege:** The humans have to keep the zombies from infiltrating a “safe area,” such as a country house. In many cases, the “safe area” can and will be penetrated, either through an overlooked opening (“Oh, no, they can climb!?”) or sheer force of numbers against crumbling architecture.

**Just When You Least Expect It:** Most “safe areas” or breathing areas are never quite that. Zombies have a tendency to be hiding everywhere and just when you think you can relax a bit, another undead creature emerges from a closet or grabs you from behind a curtain.

**Human Error:** A group of strangers are forced to work together but internal strife keeps them from working together effectively. The zombies end up exploiting these conflicts to pick apart the humans. Also, humans have a tendency to make dumb, easily avoidable mistakes that get them killed.

**Dwindling Protagonists:** A group of strangers band together to defend against the zombie menace. By the end of the film, only a few (or none) remain alive.

**Ineffective Humans:** Along with the protagonists are humans that need protecting and don’t carry their own weight. They are useless in a fight and don’t scavenge well.

**Surprise Infection:** One of the protagonists is either unknowingly infected or chooses to hide her infection. At a dramatically appropriate point, she turns zombie and attacks her former allies.

**Tragic Ending:** “Tragic” in the classical sense, zombie horror movies rarely have happy endings.

\</sidebar\>

**\<H3\>Smart Play**

A big part of blending tropes falls on the players. In a four color superhero universe, the players can expect that their B-Listers can face their foes like opposing wrestling teams and battle it out until one side, most likely theirs, emerges the victor. In **Rotted Capes**, such tactics will only lead to a quick death or infection.

Seasoned B-Listers know that the best way to survive is to have plans in place. Driving through a zombie horde in a large truck is preferable to wading in with flying fists. Baiting a super zombie through subterfuge and carefully laid traps is preferable to calling it out and facing it down like a Glory Days super-villain. Zombies are like cockroaches; if you see a few, chances are there are many more lurking about.

While such planning is to be encouraged and does ensure a higher survival rate, the Editor-in-Chief should ensure that any plan is not 100% foolproof, especially if it relies on dwindling resources. Setting up a fire wall is great, but there are zombies that can leap the wall or are resistant to fire. Some zombies can even tunnel under a defensive line.

A word of caution – players will get frustrated if you undermine their plans on a regular basis. Having the occasional special zombie tunnel under their well-thought out defenses is fine and heightens tension. Doing it every time only teaches the players that they’re wasting their time trying to play smart.

**\<H1\>The Real Villains**

Zombies obviously make up the bulk of the adversaries in **Rotted Capes**, but they aren’t the only ones. Indeed, they may not even be the most dangerous ones. Remember that some of the B-Listers were villains in the Glory Days. It stands to reason that some villainous B-Listers never reformed.

On the other hand, it also stands to reason that some heroic B-Listers became villains in the zombie aftermath. Others may have simply lost hope and survive as best they can with no regard for bystanders.

**Enclave Rivalries**

Some enclaves will be better off than others. Some are better armed, better defended, and have more food and supplies. Others have some of these things but not all. Eventually, the scarcity of materials or hotels may lead one enclave to look at another with more than envy; the desirous enclave makes war on its neighbor.

This war may take many forms. Sometimes, a better armed enclave may make a show of force and demand that another enclave share food or supplies. The other enclave chooses either to acquiesce and give the threatening enclave what it wants or to fight so that the other enclave won’t bother them again. Some enclaves, in an effort to keep from losing Bystanders, will ask for a “contest of champions” between B-Listers.

**The Revolution**

All governments have citizens that wish to change it. An autocratic leader may have a revolutionary movement promoting democracy, while a democratic government may have a revolutionary movement calling for stronger governmental powers.

B-Listers may be drawn into the revolution on either side. They may be helping the Bystanders throw out a tyrant or push for better leadership, or they may be helping the Leader survive a coup from a ruthless rival. In the grand tradition of a morally gray survival scenario, the B-Listers may support a coup, only to have the new Leader turn out to be worse than the one she replaced.

**The Unrepentant Super-villain**

Some super-villains simply can’t change their stripes. A few become leaders of enclaves, treating their citizens like slaves, while others brave the wilderness, attacking enclaves in order to continue their crime spree. A super-villain that has a history with one or more B-Listers may be looking to settle an old score.

**The Iron Leader**

**\<\<INSERT ART** Behemoth sitting on a stone like throne with humans bowing to him. \>\>

As stated before, a Leader can make some unpopular decisions in the unforgiving climate of the zombie aftermath. More than a few become drunk with power and start making demands that are of dubious merit but great personal benefit. They also tend to become paranoid and see conspiracies everywhere. At least one such leader became so adamant that the enclave was working against her that she let a zombie horde in so that her enemies could be purged once and for all. Of course, that simply ended with the enclave’s destruction.

**The Warlord**

A variant of the iron leader, the warlord wants to unite the enclaves under a single ruler which, quite naturally, happens to be the warlord. She demands that all other enclave leaders submit to her and she commands enough firepower to eliminate smaller enclaves that refuse her. Ironically, the creation of a warlord empire does unite the various enclaves in the area, leaving the B-Listers to decide whether it is worth dismantling the empire or let the warlord continue ruling and expanding.

**\<H2\>Sample Adventure Seeds**

1\. The Heroes must guard a group of looters as they raid a local supermarket.

2\. A traveler baits an enclave with news that a military escort is waiting to take them to a safe zone. The traveler is actually using them as bait to smoke out a zombie nest.

3\. A ruthless enclave leader’s harsh methods are proving more dangerous and lethal to the enclave than the zombies.

4\. An A-Lister returns and accepts an enclave’s hero-worship. He becomes a local “god” and starts treating Bystanders like his personal subjects.

5\. An A-Lister known to one or more B-Lister heroes returns, but she is no longer the hero they knew; the zombie aftermath has changed her.

6\. A ruthless super-villain comes to an enclave and warns the Bystanders that they are about to be attacked by a super zombie. The super-villain can lead them to a safe place. Should he be trusted?

7\. A helicopter crashes on the roof of a skyscraper in the city. Can the Heroes reach it before the zombies?

8\. A super zombie attacks the B-Listers that, in life, had knowledge they need. Can they get the creature to divulge it?

9\. A powerful super zombie sets its sight on the heroes and their bystanders. Can the heroes find and bait another super zombie to distract it?

10\. The remnants of the military want to explode a nuclear device to destroy a powerful zombie nest. Can the heroes get their enclave out of range in time?

11\. A super zombie has been attacking caravans and salvagers using rather clever tactics. Are super zombies that powerful? Has someone found a way to control zombies or is the “super zombie” simply an A-Lister masquerading as the undead?

12\. An exiled criminal bargains for admission into another enclave with the knowledge of how to get to the supplies of his original enclave. The B-Lister Leader of the new enclave decides to attack the other enclave to acquire them.

13\. A caravan broadcasts a request for help as it is surrounded by zombies. The enclave leader doesn’t want to risk her B-Listers on a rescue attempt. Should they try anyway?

14\. A superjet arrives and hovers over Paradigm City, silently remaining there for over a day. Is it friend or foe?

15\. Travelers are disappearing in a clear zone. Have the zombies returned or is something else going on?

16\. A B-Lister that the current B-Listers left for dead returns and wants payback.

17\. A few members of the Deathwatch play a dangerous game of seeing who can wait the longest before shooting a zombie and rescuing a Bystander. This leads to baiting zombies and increasing numbers of lost Bystanders.

18\. The popular leader of the enclave thinks that the B-Listers can no longer be trusted and sends them on a suicide mission. Can the B-Listers figure this out before all hope is lost? How do they deal with the leader without inciting the enclave?

19\. A larger enclave attempts to bring the B-Lister’s enclave into its mini-empire. This larger enclave has its own B-Listers, some of whom the player B-Listers respect. Should they join this larger group and what is the price for refusal?

20\. A charismatic leader brings a new religion to the enclave, offering salvation if everyone follows the same rules. Exile is suggested for even minor infractions. Although the B-Listers and the enclave government are suspicious, the new religion catches on like wildfire amongst the Bystanders. Can the B-Listers fight a faith? Do they even want to?

**\<H1\>Enclaves**

After Z-Day, Bystanders were either killed, became zombies, or scattered. The survivors soon learned that only by banding together did they stand a chance at survival. Such groupings of Bystanders are known as enclaves.

It’s important to note that an “enclave” is a group of Bystanders gathered together for protection; it is not a place. Because of the tenacity of zombies and the occasional super-zombie, enclaves can rarely remain in one spot for long; they are constantly on the move.

Enclaves rely on B-Listers for protection. Not only do they keep zombie hordes at bay, but B-Listers also provide inspiration. It’s easier to sleep at night when your childhood superheroes, even the lesser ones, are patrolling the perimeter. B-Listers also distract super zombies that assault enclaves, holding them off long enough for the enclave to get away. Sometimes the B-Listers get lucky and destroy a super zombie.

When creating a **Rotted Capes** campaign, you’ll first want to develop an enclave. This is the “home base” for your B-Listers. Remember that the B-Listers do not only protect the enclave; they are a part of it. This enables them to get embroiled in the daily drama amongst a group of survivors.

**\<H2\>Enclave Size**

The definition of an enclave is rather broad; it could range from a handful of people to several hundred (the initial zombie onslaught has made larger groupings improbable). An enclave’s size has a big impact on how the enclave operates and how the B-Listers interact with them.

The smaller the enclave, the more democratic it is likely to be. A strong leader may intimidate a small group to do what she wants, but she usually lacks the ability to overrule the group. Each member has to pull her own weight in order for the enclave to survive; leeches are quickly called to account or ejected from the group. Smaller enclaves are also more mobile; they can move quickly when need be. They are also easier to maintain, a small enclave needs few resources.

On the downside, small enclaves are more vulnerable. They can’t send out small teams to forage or scout, a small group has to utilize most or all members, leaving everyone exposed to zombie surprises. Similarly, if a zombie horde attacks an enclave they are more likely to wipe it out. Even the loss of a single member can really hinder a small enclave, as there aren’t many redundancies amongst the group.

Larger groups are generally more organized and, perhaps paradoxically, increasingly less democratic. Groups of Bystanders often put their faith in a single authority figure, especially if she was in a position of authority before Z-Day. Mayors, Police officers, soldiers, and even university professors have all found themselves nominated as heads of enclaves purely on their professional experiences. These new leaders often have more power granted to them then they had in their old positions and this tends to lead to an increasingly draconian government. They also have an “army” at their disposal, a paramilitary group that keeps order within and protects the enclave from zombies. As this “Deathwatch” is generally treated better than the enclave as a whole, it eagerly follows the leader’s commands, no matter how brutal.

While not nearly as mobile as smaller groups, larger groups can put up a stronger defense, generally overcoming the need to move quickly by maintaining a Hotel for longer periods of time. Larger groups consume far more resources, but they can also field more scavenging teams at once. Larger groups also have a higher concentration of leeches; many of these are pregnant women, small children, the disabled, and the elderly, people who would have died without the support of a large enclave. Authority figures tend to find such “leeches” useful, as they are more likely to support the government and are frequently tied to potential rabble-rousers. It’s difficult to stand against a governor if your family is potentially in harm’s way.

The size of an enclave has a large impact on its relationships with B-Listers. In smaller enclaves, B-Listers are likely to have strong ties with the Bystanders; they are friends, family, and possibly even lovers. B-Listers are likely to take active roles in the enclave and are likely the only “Deathwatch” that the enclave has.

In larger enclaves, the B-Lister occupies a more familiar role, as she is protecting a town-sized group of people. B-Listers are often more aloof towards the government, allowing the leader to keep order within while they hunt zombies. This is not always the case; some B-Listers become leaders of enclaves or chief enforcers for the Deathwatch. B-Listers in large enclaves are more likely to slide into a “the group trumps the individual” mentality and may let a Bystander die if it means saving others.

**\<H2\>Hotels**

A “Hotel” is a slang term for any fortified area occupied by an enclave. Obviously, the size of the enclave determines what is feasible for a Hotel. A small enclave might establish a Hotel in a school cafeteria or a three-bedroom house; a larger enclave might establish a Hotel in a big box store or an apartment complex.

Next to shelter, the first thing an enclave worries about with a Hotel is its defensibility. Windows are boarded up, unnecessary doors are sealed, and a perimeter wall is established. The make-up of the wall depends on the materials the enclave has at hand. It could be a proper wall, a fence, a piling of scrap, or simply the walls of the Hotel itself. In larger enclaves, the Deathwatch often establishes patrols and watchtowers between the wall and the Hotel.

As the Editor-in-Chief, you’ll want to sketch out the basics of the Hotel in order to determine the access points, where people sleep, where the food is kept, and the main storage areas. If the hotel has an electrical generator or broadcast tower you’ll want to note that too. You’ll also want to determine how strong the barriers and walls are and how susceptible they are to certain powers and weapons.

**\<h3\>Defensive Plans**

Every Hotel has defensive plans in place in case of zombie attack. The longer an enclave has lived in a Hotel, the more intricate the enclave’s defensive plans will be. Some enclaves like to “segment” the Hotel, so that if zombies break into one area it can be sealed from the other areas. Bystanders are often drilled in particular roles both for defense and counterattack.

The one defensive plan every enclave has is an exit strategy. No matter how impregnable a Hotel may seem, zombies and super zombies will find some way to penetrate them. One common mistake that far too many enclaves make is to select a hotel that is almost impenetrable except for one access point. Of course, when that access point is flooded with zombies and a super zombie or phase zombies find their way in, then the entire enclave becomes sitting ducks.

**\<h3\>Fatal Flaw**

Of course, the “impregnable Hotel” is largely a myth. Almost every Hotel has unknown weaknesses that zombies are ready to exploit. A Hotel might be built atop another structure, there might be a hidden tunnel from Prohibition or the Underground Railroad, pipes or vents large enough to crawl through, especially for creatures that can’t breathe, ground that can be tunneled through, or even a container of something flammable or explosive that erupts at the wrong moment.

Fatal flaws often throw a monkey wrench into defensive plans, as they have not accounted for them. Fortunately, there is often more than one fatal flaw, giving the B-Listers another previously unknown escape route. At other times, their only escape route will ironically be through their best defended entrance.

\<sidebar\>

**Broadcasts in the Aftermath**

One effect of a zombie holocaust is that there is little collateral damage except that which is done by those trying to stop the zombies (and the occasional super zombie). That means that satellites, cell towers, and even telephones can still operate as long as generators continue powering the equipment. In the world of Paradigm City, dedicated bunkers created in case of catastrophe (such as super-villains taking over cities, alien invasions, and the usual possible nuclear holocaust) have kept many signals broadcasting.

What this means is that B-Listers and Bystanders with access to cell phones, smart phones, laptops, tablets, computers, and other information technologies can still use them, texting, calling, or even emailing each other. So long as they can keep their devices powered, they can use them.

Things are a little different in a campy campaign. Accounts still shut off without payment and a B-Lister may need to feed a credit card number to the company on a monthly basis to keep it going (and pray it automatically reconnects after shut-off for a late payment). Unfortunately, a particular service provider’s servers were down when Z-Day hit, so B-Listers using that provider are out of luck. And those that can renew online better hope that they don’t hit their credit limit. An entire adventure could revolve around getting a provider’s server back online.

The A-Lister Night Lord apparently keeps a Twitter account running (Night[Lord@rottedcapes.com](mailto:Lord@rottedcapes.com)) and provides infrequent updates useful to survivors in the area. Enclaves share tweets and messages with each other when possible, warning each other of zombie migrations or, more importantly, of super zombies in the area. There are several websites dedicated to tracking A-Listers and B-Listers, informing the viewer of the current status of each one.

\</sidebar\>

**\<H2\>Caravans**

Caravans are groups of Bystanders that, rather than staying in a Hotel, are roaming the outdoors. All enclaves become caravans at some point as Hotels get compromised. A caravan may be as simple as a half-dozen people walking on abandoned streets to large convoys of tractor-trailers and trucks.

Security is a big issue with caravans, as they are constantly under threat of zombie attack. Most caravans adopt a “walled convoy approach,” keeping heavily armored vehicles on the outside of the convoy to surround more vulnerable enclave members.

Caravan leaders generally have a lot of authority as there is often little time for deliberation or inaction. The Deathwatch is constantly patrolling around the caravan to ensure that zombies are spotted and dealt with before they can get close to the enclave.

If possible, caravans try to move 24/7, but logistics usually forces them to find temporary Hotels for the night. Some caravans risk sleeping outdoors. When they do, the enclave sets up a heavily patrolled perimeter and sleeps in shifts in case a sudden zombie assault sends them running.

**\<h3\>Safe Routes**

Caravans generally follow “safe routes” when possible. Safe routes are roads that limit the chance of zombie surprises. An elevated superhighway is generally a safe route, as is a road surrounded by open countryside.

Clear zones are also considered safe routes, although enclaves are still wary of them. Recently cleared zones are favored over older ones, as zombies tend to trickle back into clear zones relatively quickly.

Traveling by boat is also considered a safe route, although large enough boats often become floating Hotels. There are many Bystanders that still own boats that are willing to move other Bystanders for a fee, usually barter of some sort.

**\<H2\>Politics**

Every enclave has a government, an individual or several individuals that make the major decisions for the enclave. In smaller enclaves, everyone may have a stake in the government; in larger groups, the government is run by a small percentage of the enclave, making it more difficult for a Bystander to influence.

As most Bystanders understand that the enclave is necessary for survival they are ready to cede a lot of power to the leaders. What a Bystander is willing to put up with tends to be inversely proportional to the size of the enclave. In smaller enclaves a leader needs to remain popular or she can be easily replaced; in larger enclaves a rebel has to sway an overwhelming majority for change, and he wears a target on his back while doing so.

Governors of small enclaves tend to be more open to change, as new factors have a direct impact. Governors of larger enclaves, defended by the Deathwatch and masses of followers, are harder to sway and often govern through methods that, while necessary at a certain time, have long since ceased being necessary.

**\<h3\>Leader**

The leader of an enclave often has leadership (or at least crowd control) experience in her background. She may have been a city councilor, business executive, religious leader, military officer, or teacher. Alternatively, she may simply be appointed leader due to her perceived, rather than actual, leadership experience. She may be a lawyer or medical doctor and, with the most education, was appointed leader or her duties during the Glory Days, such as working in the administrative office of a college, makes others believe she has the ability to lead.

Occasionally, somebody with no previous experience or ambition becomes leader simply because he proves himself capable in the zombie aftermath. His strategies for survival so intrigue and impress an enclave that they make him leader, instantly gaining him an enemy from the previous administration.

And, of course, there are leaders that obtained the position simply because they brought the most guns to the party. Such leaders tend to be gritty, ruthless, survivalist types who easily take over a more lenient (they would say “softer”) enclave. Such leaders are acutely aware that their position is tenuous and they impose a brutal order to ensure that such never happens.

**\<h3\>Advisor**

No leader, from the democratically elected professor to the most ruthless dictator, truly rules alone. She is surrounded by advisors that give her support and help shape her policies. Sometimes this group is official, such as an Enclave Council; other times it’s simply the leader’s closest friends and allies.

The most important role of an advisor to a B-Lister is that she acts as an agent to the Leader. Perhaps a B-Lister knows that he can’t influence the Leader directly, but he does have a friendly relationship with the Leader’s best friend. In extreme cases, an advisor may be willing to help overthrow an evil leader if she can be prodded in the right direction; the risk is that the advisor often tips her hand in the hope of convincing their friend of the error of her ways, only to be killed or exiled as zombie food.

**\<h3\>Deathwatch**

**\<\<INSERT ART Death Watch\>\>**

The ominously named “Deathwatch” actually owes the origin of its name to the more innocuous “Neighborhood Watch,” which is exactly what the Deathwatch is, a group of people patrolling its community and keeping it free from harm. Because this group primarily looks for and eliminates zombies, it was soon tagged a “Deathwatch” and the term soon made its way through numerous enclaves.

A typical Deathwatch is usually made up of the most physical members of an enclave and given the best gear. A Deathwatch member generally carries a shotgun and a slicing hand weapon, but makes do with whatever she is given. She is generally covered from head to toe in leather or other flexible, sturdy material to decrease the chance of infection.

In small enclaves, Deathwatch Commander is often the leader of the entire enclave. In larger enclaves, she is usually the leader’s right hand man, and can often effectively overrule the leader when pressed. In such cases, the Deathwatch Commander doesn’t necessarily want the leadership position and tends to check poor decisions rather than attempt to undermine the leader of the enclave.

**\<h3\>Medical Staff**

Physicians, surgeons, and even veterinarians occupy a special place in any enclave. In the zombie aftermath they are the only people with the knowledge not only to heal the injured and sick, but also to identify early signs of infection or determine when an infection is burned out.

Most enclaves are lucky enough to have one licensed medical doctor. Many enclaves make due with nurses, veterinarians, athletics trainers, or simply someone that knows how to utilize a first aid kit. A true medical doctor can be a powerful member of an enclave, as she determines whose fit to go on a patrol and who shouldn’t be let back into the enclave. She also has access to potent drugs and can, in some circumstances, incapacitate the Leader or other members of the enclave.

**\<h3\>Engineer**

Just as an enclave needs someone to keep its members healthy, it also needs someone to keep the machines running. Some enclaves are lucky enough to have a B-Lister as an engineer, a super-genius that can keep the enclave well-armed and well-protected. Most enclaves make do with auto mechanics, electricians, and IT people.

An engineer is often the source of a mission; something broke down and the engineer can’t fix it with the materials available. This could be anything from light bulbs to a car radiator. In some cases, the engineer will need access to an existing factory or garage, meaning that the B-Listers have to clean it, secure it, and keep the engineer and assistants safe while using it.

**\<h3\>Moral Authority**

A moral authority is someone whose opinion is given great weight. She may be a religious leader, former A-Lister, celebrity, or respected scholar. In smaller enclaves, a moral authority is probably part of the government but in larger enclaves it’s possible that this person has no other roll other than someone who’s consulted on big decisions and has the ability to make others share her opinions.

This is not to say that the Moral Authority holds no power. If the enclave has pledged itself to a particular religion or moral standard, then the government would take no action, whether popular or not, if the moral authority declares it wrong.

There may be multiple moral authorities in an enclave. A retired A-Lister or very experienced B-Lister may guide the actions of the current B-Listers, but have little weight amongst the enclave community as a whole. In confederate enclaves, separate moral authorities may have sway over separate groups.

**\<h3\>Ultra**

Ultras were more prevalent in the early months after Z-Day but they still occasionally crop up in enclaves. An Ultra is a person who feels that his or her opinion is important and that he or she should be consulted in the major decisions of the enclave. Most Ultras end up in an enclave government or other important position. Others simply can’t understand why they aren’t taken more seriously.

When Z-Day came, Ultras were people that presumed themselves important in the Glory Days: A-Listers, government bureaucrats and officials, business executives, religious leaders, university deans, and even popular entertainers. Some of these Ultras continue to have impacts in enclaves even now. Many Ultras have also sprung up in the zombie aftermath: survivalists, hunters, family patriarchs and matriarchs, and B-Listers.

What makes Ultras important is their ability to sway votes and determine courses of action. Even a disrespected Ultra can still bark, ensuring that she either browbeats others into joining her or encouraging others to quickly vote against whatever she wants. It’s valuable to know who the Ultras that hold sway are in your enclave and get them on your side as quickly as possible.

**\<h3\>B-Lister**

B-Listers occupy a unique place within an enclave. They are at times considered an extension of the Deathwatch and are at other times Advisors to the Leader. In some cases a B-Lister may be Medical Staff (especially if he has the Healing power) or even the Leader. B-Listers are often treated differently than Bystanders and are generally autonomous to Enclave Laws.

**\<h3\>Lone Wolf**

For whatever reason, there are some people that simply feel better when apart from others, even if it means sharing countryside with zombies. Lone wolves enjoy the open road and travel from enclave to enclave, rarely staying in one place for too long. Some lone wolves have lost a lot and fear putting roots in a place just to have them ripped out again. Others were rugged outdoorsmen who still enjoy being outdoors; these types sometimes stay with an enclave as long as they are frequently given loot team assignments. Lone Wolf B-Listers are often known as “Ronin,” as they wander the zombie wastelands helping travelling Bystanders, loot teams, and the occasional enclave.

**\<H2\>Types of Government**

There is a wide diversity of governments within enclaves. Some enclaves follow the will of a single leader, while others are far more democratic. Detailed here are some of the most common types of enclave governments.

**\<h3\>Consensus**

Consensus governments only usually work with very small enclaves. Everyone has an equal say and the enclave only acts when everyone agrees. Leaders may set the agenda but are limited to consensus decision-making. The danger with consensus governments is that an enclave may refuse to act without consulting every member, even if a member or two aren’t present. Consensus governments are usually short-term governments that quickly evolve into democracies.

**\<h3\>Democratic**

Democratic governments are also represented more amongst small enclaves. Every member of the enclave votes on every important matter and the majority rules. Leaders of democracies have more power than a consensus government and usually try to interpret votes liberally so as to not require them frequently. An effective leader works to ensure that she has at least 51% of the enclave supporting her.

**\<h3\>Representative**

Large enclaves that want to hold on to the ideals of democracies tend to have representative governments; one person represents a part of the enclave. Representative governments may also be born out of non-democratic enclaves – an enclave made up of several families may simply have the heads of each family gather to make decisions. Rather than sway a majority of the enclave, someone wishing to affect a representative government need only poison the ears of a few people.

**\<h3\>Confederation**

A confederation is less a single enclave as it is a group of mini-enclaves that band together for mutual protection and survival. Each distinct group within a confederation may have its own way of doing things; a democratic and theocratic mini-enclave may be part of the same overall enclave. Each group designates its own leader(s) to represent its interest in the confederate government, but the actual authority of this government is small and usually requires consensus (otherwise, the minority groups would simply leave). Confederations are difficult to control; attempts by an ambitious leader to unite them often fracture the Confederation instead.

**\<h3\>Theocratic**

A theocratic government follows an ideal. This may be theocratic in the traditional sense of a particular religion, but it could also be the ideals of a nation, popular figure, or even an A-Lister. Theocratic leaders tend to wield a lot of power and can scare enclave citizens into submission by merely suggesting that they are straying from the true path. Of course, this works against the Leader as well, especially if his “prophecies” have a way of not coming true.

**\<h3\>Military**

A military government is one where the higher ranked members of an enclave make decisions for lower ranked members. This could be a true military organization, such as the remnants of an army division, or it could be any group with merit-based levels. In any case, a military government usually establishes a method to “move up the ranks,” giving all members of an enclave a chance for advancement if they prove themselves worthy. Unfortunately, those at the bottom, which usually comprise the largest group, are often treated poorly.

**\<h3\>Authoritarian**

An authoritarian government follows the rule of a self-appointed Leader or circle of Leaders. While the classic authoritarian government is the rule of an iron-fisted dictator, an authoritarian leader could be benevolent as well. A small enclave may simply follow the lead of a former mayor or police sergeant because they see them as authority figures and such Leaders rarely abuse their powers. On the other hand, a ruthless dictator needs to convince the enclave that living under his rule is better than taking one’s chances with zombies.

**\<h3\>Anarchy**

Not all enclaves, especially newly created ones, have a stable government; they are just a collection of frightened people that have massed together for lack of better plans. In this case the B-Listers are going to have to help establish some sort of order while keeping various Bystanders from harming themselves or the entire enclave. Most authoritarian Leaders grab their power from just these circumstances.

Anarchy can also reign when an enclave loses faith in its government. Perhaps the Leader was toppled or the deliverance that the theocratic leader promised never came to pass. In any case, the enclave devolves into anarchy and, again, the B-Listers are called upon to maintain order along with the remnants of the Deathwatch.

**\<H2\>The Laws of the Enclave**

Every enclave enforces certain rules in order to keep the group together and be as safe as possible. These laws may be based on laws from the Glory Days or they may simply be rules developed through trial and error in the zombie aftermath.

**\<h3\>The Laws of Welcome**

The Laws of Welcome are simply the protocol an enclave uses when confronted by a traveler. They involve how close a traveler is allowed to come before he can speak, what weapons he’s allowed to possess when entering, and ways he can prove he is not a zombie. The most xenophobic enclaves often require an unknown traveler to strip naked and spin around so he can be inspected for infection (ironically, several travelers that stripped naked were literally caught with their pants down when a zombie rushed them from a concealed area).

**\<h3\>The Laws of Property**

The Laws of Property simply state what each member of the enclave is allowed to own and what is considered communal property. This can be important to travelers with horses or vehicles, as joining an enclave, even for a night, could mean the loss of their property. The Laws of Property also extends to food; some enclaves allow Bystanders to hoard their own food supplies; others insist that all food be centrally located and doled out as necessary.

**\<h3\>The Laws of Government**

Assuming that the Leader isn’t a total autocrat, there are rules for electing leaders and giving them authority. Most enclaves have regular meetings, whether it is a strong leader and her advisors or a meeting of family heads. Who can approach the government and how she can address her concerns is often written into the code. Theoretically, most enclaves have rules for removing leaders, but for obvious reasons these are rarely enforced.

The Deathwatch’s authority is also covered under this section, although in practice the Deathwatch usually has as much authority as it wishes to exercise. Still, most Deathwatch members try to follow the law, making sure that they have orders from the Commander before violating any of them.

**\<h3\>The Criminal Code**

Every enclave needs a method of dealing with criminals, whether they hoard food, steal supplies, or threaten other Bystanders. Depending on the enclave this could be very informal, such as an autocratic leader that holds court and makes verdicts based on what she feels is right, or the enclave may have an elaborate legal system, complete with lawyers, judges, and a right to appeal.

Thanks to modern technology, enclave criminal codes can be just as weighty as the originals, assuming the batteries and power holds out. Alternatively, some enclaves might have more primitive systems, including trial by combat or very bright-line, liberally interpreted laws (i.e. “if you are caught stealing, you get beheaded and your body burned”).

The Criminal Code often conflicts with B-Lister justice and is the source of contention for many enclaves. Most B-Listers want to give wrong-doers a second chance, while Leaders are more concerned about the health of the enclave as a whole. It’s also difficult to apply the Criminal Code to B-Listers without another B-Lister to enforce it, or even to apply the Code to a Bystander if the B-Lister is willing to protect him against it.

Perhaps the most controversial punishment in any enclave is exile. B-Listers generally insist on it, while Leaders worry that they are feeding the local zombie population. Leaders would rather execute criminals than risk it, especially when large numbers of criminals need to be dealt with at once. Some enclaves have created a special punishment called “Absorption,” where a B-Lister can vouch for a criminal’s future compliance with enclave law. Should the criminal commit another crime, then the Leader can impose punishments against the B-Lister or her loved ones.

**\<h3\>Loot Teams**

Every enclave needs loot teams, people that can go out and return with supplies the enclave needs. Established enclaves often have rules for how many people can make up a loot team, what their roles are on the team, and what to do in case of zombie attack. In many cases these rules also spell out when it’s okay to leave someone behind.

**\<h2\>Entertainment**

While most of the daily routines are geared towards survival, enclave governments do realize the necessity of allowing its members to blow off steam and to forget about their troubles for a while. A variety of entertainments are allowed and encouraged. Some enclaves are fortunate enough to have entertainers amongst them that perform new versions of old routines. Other enclaves simply show old movies and television shows.

Amongst the Bystanders, sports and other games are popular. All of the traditional sports, such as football (both types), baseball, basketball, and even hockey, are represented, with their rules altered for playing in available space. Children still jump rope and skateboard, while adults play poker and other party games.

**\<h3\>Blood Sports**

It may seem ironic that in a world where zombies are constantly attacking you that you’d create games where humans can hurt each other, but the few remaining psychiatrists maintain that there is something in the human psyche that wants to prove that it can still dominate other beings, whether living or undead.

Most “blood sports” are simply regular sports with fewer rules. Playing American Football without pads (similar to rugby) is a popular one, but mixed martial arts competitions help competitors stay in shape to fight the zombies. Prizes are often more perks or supplies.

**\<h2\>Agriculture**

One of the first things Bystanders noticed when observing zombies is just how uninterested they are in vegetables. A zombie walking through a garden does no more damage than a drunkard trying to make his way home. In theory, an entire field can be planted and harvested without fear of zombies destroying it. In practice, it is very dangerous for farmers to return to the same spot, usually outside the confines of the enclave, to work the land.

**\<h2\>Exile**

If an enclave has an exile punishment then it often has a particular procedure for preparing criminals for it. An exile sentence could be the focus of an entire issue or even a multi-issue arc (or mini-series). Exile is either humane or cowardly depending on one’s perspective; you are releasing someone into the wilderness who’s probably going to end up becoming a zombie.

Exile is more common in camp series, where the harsh realities of survival are less of a factor. Even in the zombie aftermath, news travels fast and an exile isn’t likely to be welcomed in surrounding enclaves, which leaves them exposed to roaming zombies. Still, even in gritty series, exile may serve a purpose other than removal (which is better served through execution) that makes it a viable punishment.

Some punishments are temporary exiles; the criminal is allowed to return once certain conditions are met. The exile may be expected to kill a number of zombies, hunt a super zombie, or retrieve something that was lost in the city. Alternatively, the exile may have a finite amount of time, after which the criminal may return to the enclave.

Permanent exiles are more extreme; the criminal will never be allowed back into the enclave. This often dooms the criminal to death or infection, as she needs to spend a long time surviving on her own before she can find a new enclave. Some enclaves make the punishment worse by marking the criminal in some way in order to broadcast her status. Such marks can be hidden but, if discovered after the criminal is accepted into a new enclave, immediately makes her a suspect of any crime that occurred since she joined.

When handing down a sentence of exile, an enclave court has to determine the process of exile. Criminals are usually driven a certain distance and dropped off. Usually, the criminal is often given some supplies to ease her transition to the wilderness, especially if the sentence is temporary. Paranoid enclaves often drop off the criminal and the supplies in different spots so that the criminal can’t use any weapons against her transporters; most transporters keep at least one gun trained on the criminal at all times to ensure a smooth start of sentence. In gritty series, most exiled criminals, once retrieving their weapons, commit suicide rather than risk the zombies.

Gritty series also have a high incidence of “poaching.” Regardless of the sentence, some exiled criminals aren’t trusted and a vigilante group of Bystanders secretly follows the transporters and ensures that the criminal won’t cause any more trouble by killing her. In some enclaves this “vigilante group” is actually the Deathwatch, who has turned the sentence into a sport. After all, what should the enclave care what happens to a permanent exile?

Needless to say, authoritarian enclave leaders often use the exile punishment to get rid of political rivals and threats to their power. Exile is preferable to execution because it avoids martyrdom while still effectively imposing the same punishment. Allies of the exile are likely to take comfort in the possibility that the exile survives rather than openly rebel, giving the leader more time to root them out.

**\<H1\>Drama**

**\<\<INSERT** ART – Spider Man cover of Spiderman in mourning, but instead have it be Balor with a female dead behind him. \>\>

In the Glory Days, heroes didn’t simply don costumes and fight bad guys. They also had complex private lives with their own trials and tribulations and, oftentimes, these private entanglements would affect the hero’s performance in battle. Similarly, in the zombie aftermath, heroes are more than just bashers of zombies; they also have personal interactions within their chosen enclave.

The drama of life in an enclave can certainly affect the missions outside it. A B-Lister in a love triangle may openly wonder whether her rival is assigning her to dangerous missions in order to be rid of her. A B-Lister whose brother was just infected prior to the B-Lister leaving to rout the nest doesn’t know whether his brother was saved or turned or how bad the burns will be. He also has to worry about a Bystander shooting his brother “just to be sure.”

Drama can add a lot of roleplaying opportunities in the zombie aftermath and really helps the game be more than just a “zombie dungeon crawl” (although there is certainly nothing wrong with that play style if that’s what your group wants to play). Entire issues could revolve around the drama inside an enclave rather than the threats from without.

**\<h2\>Flashbacks**

Unless you began your series as a regular four-color superhero series and then dropped Z-Day, chances are your players only know their B-Listers and pool of Bystanders (to say nothing of super zombies) as they are now, rather than as they were. While you can certainly deal with this through a line of explanation, (“Here comes Awesome Man. He’s now a super zombie, but you remember him as a real boy scout in the Glory Days”), there is a meatier alternative: the Flashback scene.

Flashbacks allow you to introduce characters as they were before heavily roleplaying them as they are. This offers the players a window into the life of the character during the Glory Days and provides hooks for their B-Listers to interact with the character now. You can even introduce previous drama into the flashback scene for the B-Lister to deal with in the present.

Flashbacks are a good way to draw contrasts between the Glory Days and the zombie aftermath. The Paradigm City of old was bright and safe, while it’s currently a giant zombie nest. The relative importance of major characters could be contrasted, often without the players knowing who the important person is in the flashback scene.

For example, the Editor-in-Chief may start a session with a flashback to a corporate office, where an executive is pitching a corporate sponsorship to a B-Lister. During the course of the conversation, a sanitation worker walks in to empty the trash. The executive berates him for interrupting a closed door meeting and the worker apologizes and leaves.

In the present, that corporate executive is now one of many looters caught in a zombie-covered area. While the B-Listers try to clear it out, they are aided by a hardened survivalist. The B-Lister in the flashback recognizes the survivalist as that sanitation worker, and the survivalist mentions he was fired that day. He finds it very interesting to be in a position to help that former executive now.

**\<h2\>The Bridge**

A bridge is the “scene sweep” that takes the B-Listers from the present into the Glory Days. If you’re using Paradigm City then it should be relatively easy for you to select a location and introduce a scene. While not necessary, you should also try to involve as many other players as possible. Perhaps the B-Listers were known to each other before Z-Day; they may have even formed a “Junior Protector Corps.”

The scene should be something relevant to the current situation. If you’re introducing the B-Lister as a reformed villain looking for an enclave, flash back to a scene where he was thoroughly enjoying being the villain, perhaps doing things that aren’t easy to forgive. If the newcomer was an old flame, flash back to a dinner scene where the B-Lister and his old flame were madly in love with each other and one signaled undying love (a marriage proposal, finally ditching a rival, changing one’s career plans, etc).

**\<h2\>The Objective**

Every flashback scene should also have an objective. The Editor-in-Chief needs to ask herself “what do I hope to accomplish with this scene?” If you are running this solo for a B-Lister then you need to get to that objective quickly; if all are involved then you can take more time.

Be wary of the trap of letting a flashback get away from you. If the villain was dastardly don’t give hints of softness. If the two ex-lovers were supposed to be madly in love don’t highlight potential problems. You don’t want to telegraph expectations or sabotage the impact. A poorly worded jab could turn a B-Lister against a Bystander even if the rest of the scene portrays her sympathetically.

**\<h2\>Resolving Conflicts**

More so than any other scene, flashbacks work best when the dice stay out of the player’s hands. While the Editor-in-Chief should certainly leave room for improvisation, the core element of the flashback is predetermined. Even if the flashback is left open (i.e. the Editor-in-Chief establishes that the B-Lister and the super-villain once met, but how that situation was resolved is unimportant to the fact that they are meeting now), there’s always a chance that a cross word or fist-fight could lead to death. In an even tighter flashback it doesn’t take much for a bad series of rolls to send the flashback off in the wrong direction, leaving it to Editor-in-Chief editing (also known as fiat) to reign in the scene.

As a rule, players tend to be generally comfortable with the scripted aspects of a flashback as it’s simply a more fun and interactive way to convey information that would otherwise be monologue. Still, a good Editor-in-Chief can make the events of the flashback flow naturally, leading to passive acceptance rather than active resistance.

\<sidebar\>

**The Bait-and-Switch**

One interesting way to play **Rotted Capes** is to start with a few issues (maybe even a miniseries) showcasing life before Z-Day. The B-Listers have no idea that their world is about to end and this is the perfect opportunity for Editors-in-Chief to introduce A-Listers, B-Listers, and Bystanders that she plans to re-introduce once Z-Day arrives.

This is also an opportunity to showcase characters that were important in the B-Lister’s life before Z-Day and resulting aftermath that destroyed it. Perhaps the lone wolf B-Lister was once a family man and Z-Day took all of that away from him. It makes for an interesting juxtaposition to have the other players see how this B-Lister was before his personality was completely rearranged by the effects of the zombie apocalypse.

Another twist is to allow the players to primarily portray the A-Listers that influenced their future B-Lister heroes. While these A-Listers won’t survive the Z-Day, they can certainly provide life lessons and teachable moments to their protégés. Perhaps, while attached to them, the B-Lister sidekicks don’t really want to turn out to be like their A-Lister mentors.

One final note of caution: in spite of the heading of this sidebar, you may not want to surprise your players with a true bait-and-switch (i.e. pitching a typical superhero series to them and then yanking out the rug after a few issues to throw them into a zombie apocalypse). You run the risk of sapping enthusiasm from your players, even if they would normally be receptive to a **Rotted Capes** series.

\</sidebar\>

**\<h2\>Relationships**

All B-Listers should have relationships with at least some people within the enclave. Not only does this allow the B-Lister to have people to interact with, but these people also have their own trials and tribulations that the B-Lister will also get caught up in. The following are several examples of relationships a B-Lister may start the game with.

Remember that relationships are fluid, and a lover today could become a friend or enemy later in the series.

**\<h3\>Family**

When Z-Day arrived, one’s natural instinct is to protect one’s family. This could be a single individual, such as a son or grandmother, or it could be an entire extended family (usually minus a few unfortunate members). Most commonly, it’s a handful of surviving members of the B-Lister’s immediate family still mourning the loss of a few less fortunate members. In some cases the family may be adopted after the chaos of Z-Day (a B-Lister takes the child of a doomed friend under her wing or she adopts a recent orphan).

**\<h3\>Lover**

The B-Lister’s lover is part of the enclave. Whether married before Z-Day or simply in a serious relationship, they are dedicated to each other. A common trope is the ex-lovers brought back together via the zombie aftermath; they still may have issues that need working out.

**\<h3\>Bestie (or BFF)**

While you may have friends within the enclave, your Bestie is like a sibling. The two of you are always looking out for each other and it’s inconceivable that your Bestie would ever betray you. When a B-Lister goes off on a zombie hunt, it’s her Bestie that she trusts to watch over her loved ones.

**\<h3\>Frenemy**

A frenemy is like a Bystander with the first stage of a zombie infection; she pretends to be your best friend and then works to undermine you. This may not be a one-way street; two rivals for the same lover may be mutual frenemies. When a B-Lister leaves the enclave, it’s his frenemy he worries about staying behind.

**\<h3\>Mentor**

People still need teachers in the zombie apocalypse. Your mentor may excel in a certain skill, or she may be a former A-Lister whose injuries have left her incapable of fighting evil the way she used to. Your mentor generally keeps you on the straight and narrow, although it’s possible that your mentor is an ex-super-villain or deranged professor that pushes you to be more ruthless in your actions.

**\<h3\>Fan**

This person had your poster on his wall when you were still a sidekick. A fan always seeks to help a B-Lister, whether wanted or not. He knows everything about the B-Lister’s history and probably maintained an extensive website on the B-Lister before the Z-Day. If he still has access to the net then he continues his updates; otherwise he keeps meticulous notes in a journal until he gets the chance to update his site.

**\<\<INSERT ART - Preteen girl dressed up like Templar with knife in hand\>\>**

**\<h3\>Sidekick**

You may have been a sidekick before Z-Day, but to those you protect you are an A-Lister now, and an A-Lister needs a sidekick. Unfortunately, potential sidekicks these days tend to have even less power than you do. Still, the Sidekick creates a costume modeled on yours and begs to be taken on missions with you. Hopefully, he has some skills that are useful to you.

**\<h3\>Rival**

Maybe you were on opposite sides of the hero/villain dynamic before Z-Day, or you were just two heroes (or villains) that didn’t get along. Now both of you have to help the enclave if either of you are going to survive. Unlike Frenemies, though, you don’t even pretend to get along with each other and each of you never misses an opportunity to dump on the other. Still, when the going gets tough you still grudgingly work together.

**\<h3\>Dependent**

You have someone that is clearly dependent on you. It may be a child or elderly relative; it may be someone that is mentally or physically impaired, or it may be someone that’s just particularly vulnerable. Whoever it is, you can’t be away from them for long periods of time. They may also be the reason why you stick with an enclave rather than strike out on your own.

**\<H2\>Issues**

What fun would relationships be without issues (we’re talking about relationship issues here, not an issue of a **Rotted Capes** series)? Issues are the subplots and complications that a B-Lister has to deal with based on his relationships with others in the enclave. Sometimes these issues also crop up with previously unattached members of an enclave.

Remember that issues aren’t exclusive. Many of the issues below (and any others that you concoct) can be woven together into interesting dramatic scenes. Imagine, for example, if a rival with an old score to settle killed the infected loved one of the B-Lister.

Here are a few examples of issues. Doubtless the Editor-in-Chief will think of many more.

\<sidebar\>

**There are no Teenagers**

No, this heading does not imply that the zombie hordes have wiped out everyone over twelve and under twenty. Instead, it implies that in a world where survival is a daily challenge, there is no room for a teenage subculture. When children are old enough to wield weapons and have children of their own, they are considered adults.

In effect, it’s a return to a medieval mindset and, in keeping with that analogy, provides plenty of drama with leaders making brash and immature decisions. Many “young adults” will soon find themselves in key positions as older people tend not to live as long, get maimed, or turned. Unfortunately, the loss of the teenage label does not erase the teenage mind and petty disputes, infatuations, and other dramatic situations can explode into melodrama fairly easily. The teenage mind just isn’t equipped to handle pragmatism as well as an experienced adult can.

For B-Listers, this can make for interesting situations, especially if the B-Listers are teenagers themselves. How does a B-Lister handle unwanted infatuation from a teenage leader that has an entire Deathwatch behind him? How can an enclave negotiate with teenage leaders that declare war whenever they don’t get what they want?

\</sidebar\>

**\<h3\>We could have saved her!**

In the chaos of Z-Day and the immediate aftermath, little was known about the zombie infection and the fact that, at least in its initial stages, it’s treatable. Many B-Listers and Bystanders put infected people to death when they could have potentially been saved. Doing so to someone you don’t know is bad enough, but imagine if it was a loved one. Worse (if such a word can be used), other loved ones know you did it.

This gets even more complicated in the present, where purification is a known cure. Did you really need to kill your infected frenemy, or were you just taking the opportunity of ridding yourself of a problem?

**\<h3\>How could you do it?**

Even with the knowledge that the deed must be done, many Bystanders look upon B-Listers with suspicion if they put down their own loved ones. Is it right for you to do so, or should you leave that to another? How can you cope with a Bestie that killed your zombie spouse, even if you asked her to do it?

This is especially effective in family relationships, where the B-Lister killed a zombie family member and the rest of the family knows it. Will your children still trust you after you killed their older brother, even if he was after their brains at the time? How does your sister’s widower look at you after you slaughtered what was left of his wife?

**\<h3\>Loose Cannon**

One of your friends or loved ones is a loose cannon; she’s constantly getting herself into trouble. She may freak out and blindly run away at the hint of a zombie, he may think that he knows a lot about survival when he clearly doesn’t, or she speaks before thinking and causes trouble. In any event, the B-Lister often gets drawn into the situation when the loose cannon, well, runs loose.

**\<h3\>Love Triangle**

Even when struggling to survive on a daily basis, people are human and generally desire companionship. Unfortunately, pickings can be slim in an enclave, especially if the gender you are attracted to is underrepresented. Thus, many enclave members find themselves in love triangles.

The classic love triangle is two people being in love with a third person who loves them both back. This third person often doesn’t push one of them away (otherwise that person becomes **The Stalker**), leaving both to believe they have a chance at companionship. Things are even more complicated in the zombie aftermath, as many people try not to get to exclusive or close to people that might be zombies or dead a few days from now.

Finally, a love triangle need not be romantic. A family member reliant on a particular Bystander may not appreciate the attention he is getting from another Bystander and actively work against her. A fellow B-Lister may believe that taking a lover is a bad thing and encourage her ally to break it off with hers (he may even try to sabotage the relationship as “proof” that they can’t work).

**\<h3\>The Replacement**

With people constantly dying in the zombie aftermath there’s always room for someone to step into the shoes of another. A Bystander may become a surrogate spouse and parent, the Deathwatch may get a new commander, and a new B-Lister may replace a beloved one that was cut down two weeks ago.

Issues revolve around how favorably the replacement compares to the original and whether the replacement is accepted or desired in the first place. The Replacement may inadvertently continue a love triangle that was thought to be ended with the original’s death, or he may be a B-Lister with powers and ethics seen as inferior to the B-Lister he replaced.

**\<h3\>The Stalker**

The stalker is a Bystander or B-Lister that keeps inserting herself into someone’s life unwanted. This could be relatively innocuous, like a young Bystander that always wants to talk to a B-Lister when she returns from a mission, or it could be creepy and dangerous, like a man that continually makes unwanted advances towards a woman and interferes with anyone else that tries to court her.

An interesting wrinkle to add with a stalker is to make him crucial to the survival of the enclave. Maybe the Bystander grits her teeth and bears it when the stalker lavishes attention on her because he’s the only medical doctor in the enclave. Maybe the stalker is a B-Lister and his loss would significantly weaken the enclave’s defenses.

Whatever the case, anyone that the stalker perceives to be an obstacle had better watch his back. The stalker normally has no qualms letting such people wander into zombie nests or catch an unfortunate bullet in the back.

**\<h3\>I’m Back!**

In the chaos of the zombie aftermath many people get lost and presumed dead, only to turn up at a later date. Some may have survived on their own, while others joined different enclaves. In any case, the loved one is presumed dead and the Bystander moves on with his life – and then she returns.

The return of a loved one can cause many complications, especially if there’s a replacement or other suitor involved. Even with Z-Day only being about a year in the past, there’s still plenty of time for Bystanders to take new lovers and even start raising families, only for the original spouse returning as if from the dead. Some returning Bystanders are welcomed with open arms while others receive a chillier welcome. The returning Bystander may even have her own emotional baggage. Why did they leave her behind so easily? Why didn’t they send messages to the other enclaves? Can she expect her old flame to pick up where they left off?

An interesting spin on this is when two separated lovers presume the other dead and each move on. What happens when two enclaves merge and the two discover that they both survived, except now they each have families of their own? How do their children react? How do the families get along with each other?

A superhero twist on this angle is to have an A-Lister (or even B-Lister) that was presumed dead suddenly pop up. This hero treats the current B-Listers as they were in the Glory Days and expects them to suddenly submit to her orders. She may not like or accept what the B-Listers have become and actively try to get them to return to their former ways. This could be very difficult if the current B-Lister was a villain in the Glory Days and the returning A-Lister just can’t bring herself to believe it.

**\<h3\>Glory Days Still**

Perhaps as a coping mechanism or other psychological reason, some people refuse to see the world as it is. They constantly reference the Glory Days and act as if they are still here. In mild cases, the Bystander merely wants relationships and, to a certain extent, lifestyles, to remain the same, while in more extreme cases the Bystander actually believes that the Glory Days are still here. He patiently waits for his wife to come home from work, even though she’d been eaten by a zombie six months ago.

A variant of this is the Gamer, who escapes from the reality of the zombie aftermath through online MMORPGs that are still functioning, behaves as if he is a toon seeing the world through its eyes, or simply huddles in the corner with a few friends and spends the majority of his time playing **Arcanis**.

This symptom can have a great impact when other people in the “Gloria’s” life have changed, yet the Gloria refuses to accept it. He plays the dutiful husband even after his wife has moved on and is seeing someone else. He treats his daughter like the princess she was, not the battle-hardened zombie slayer she is.

A superhero twist on this trope is the hero that continues acting according to his Glory Days code. He still acts as if he is protecting the citizens of a city, sees super zombies as any other super-villain nemesis, and refuses to believe that a super-villain could have a change of heart just because of some Z-Day.

**\<h3\>Settling an Old Score**

This issue comes into play when something unresolved between two or more people during the Glory Days comes into play in the zombie aftermath. Two B-Listers may have been personal enemies now forced to work together (bonus points if one of them was responsible for the death of a loved one or teammate during the Glory Days). One B-Lister may have taken credit for something that another B-Lister accomplished, and with the A-Listers gone there’s no way to rectify it.

Nor does this issue need be limited to B-Listers. Bystanders could have old scores to settle as well, such as an executive that was stepped on for a promotion, a criminal that had been put away by a police officer, or even two soldiers (uniformed or unconventional) from different sides of a war that took place toward the end of the Glory Days.

In any case the unsettled score still simmers and both sides desperately try to find some way to end it, either through finally besting the other or trying, but failing, to put the past behind them.

**\<h3\>In Memoriam**

A B-Lister is trying hard to live up to the ideals of a favorite A-Lister; she may even have taken on his mantle. While no one usually mistakes her for the original, they do question her whenever she does something that her predecessor would never do (never mind that the Glory Days and the zombie aftermath are two different worlds that play by different rules).

Occasionally, a roaming Bystander does mistake her for the original and tries to settle an old score or rebuild a relationship. Even when the truth is revealed, the affected Bystander sometimes projects his feelings for the old hero onto the new, causing lots of complications.

**\<h3\>But I’m a Hero!**

As we’ve said before, the Glory Days and the zombie apocalypse are two different worlds. Unfortunately, the circumstances of the new world often make the B-Lister deal with uncomfortable decisions. Many of these have already been covered, but it’s worth noting here that sometimes the decisions of the leaders of an enclave won’t sit well with a B-Lister and she’ll have to struggle with whether she can support the government in protecting the enclave or whether it’s gone too far.

Unfortunately, a B-Lister often tips her hand by expressing concern about a government’s methods. This encourages the leader to have the Deathwatch keep an eye on the B-Lister as the Leader gathers information useful to either keep the B-Lister in line or at least keep her from disrupting the enclave, with prejudice if necessary.

**\<h3\>Burn Victim**

\<\<INSERT ART - A Hero on the ground with arm exposed showing a bite mark and Liberty Torch’s torch about to burn him/her. \>\>

The only way to combat infection is to burn it off. Obviously, this leaves physical scars. One of the reasons B-Listers maintain costumes is to preserve their image as clean heroes, not horribly scarred survivors. Only B-Listers fortunate enough to have the Healing and Regeneration powers on their side can make these marks disappear.

Extensive scarring can take an emotional toll. B-Listers that have needed the purification several times start to resemble the zombies they hunt. An attractive Bystander used to having women fall all over him might have to deal with a horribly scarred face.

Alternatively, a burn victim may be able to masquerade as someone else, especially if it’s been some time since that person was last seen. It’s more difficult to pull this off with current technology, but most enclaves won’t have access to the latest and greatest and, unless a Bystander put her images and video on a remote server or the smart phone she still carries, then the images may be inaccessible. On the flip side, a burn victim may have difficulty convincing an enclave that she’s still the same person they lost six months ago, especially if they have contradictory evidence.

**\<h3\>The Quest**

With this issue a B-Lister or Bystander becomes so focused and single-minded on a particular goal that it trumps everything else. The obvious quest is zombie hunting, but it could also be the search for Sanctuary, a lost piece of super equipment, or even the desire to lead the enclave.

Questers tend to ignore whatever else is going on around them. A Quester, for instance, may not even realize that she is in a love triangle; she believes that her significant other patiently waits for her in the enclave as she spends most of her days trying to find a particular super zombie. Instead, her ignored lover is busy being courted by someone else.

Questers get dangerous when the object of their quest is in sight. They are often willing to sacrifice anything, including themselves to obtain it.

**\<h3\>Becoming the Monster**

Not only has the world changed after Z-Day, but the B-Lister or Bystander is changing with it. This change goes beyond getting into “survival mode,” the B-Lister is slowly losing his humanity. He protects the enclave because it’s his job, and he hunts zombies because it’s his job.

A Leader may enforce rigid rules in the name of survival, but she ends up treating the enclave as chattel more than people. A B-Lister may still rescue Bystanders trapped by a zombie horde, but he doesn’t worry about the Bystander that wandered off in the wrong direction. Loved ones find the B-Lister detached from them, and fellow B-Listers are noticing that he’s going increasingly Lone Wolf on them.

Like a Quester, B-Listers slowly becoming monsters often don’t realize what they are doing to their loved ones before it’s too late. Unlike Questers, however, a B-Lister losing her humanity is dangerous. She may confront her rival and beat her to a pulp; she may simply remove herself further from humanity. Most such B-Listers soon come to the realization that there’s nothing worth living for and embrace death, going out in one last blaze of glory.

\<sidebar\>

**The Loss of Humanity**

Fear, self-preservation, and apathy (among other emotions) can have a grave impact on one’s psyche. A perky, naïve student from the Glory Days could become a ruthless zombie hunter within the span of a few months. Two siblings that were tight could easily start distrusting each other to the point where they are at each other’s throats. Old rivalries that would have been minor bumps in the road of life now become things worth killing for.

One way to drive home the harshness of life in an enclave is to show the slow descent of Bystanders during the course of a series. Perhaps an idealistic medical doctor becomes more fatalistic as the weeks wear on. The impact is even worse with children, who are forced to grow up quickly. Many Bystanders can’t handle it and nary has a week gone by without someone ending his life with a bullet or a noose.

On the other hand, there are always a few flecks of hope. Perhaps a hot-headed, narcissistic dilettante becomes more caring and appreciative of other people over time. Perhaps a priest that has lost her faith slowly gains it back. Perhaps a B-Lister that never felt very important has a chance to truly shine.

\</sidebar\>

**Zombie Code Authority**

1.  Yellow is bad. (Reference to the infectious blotches)
2.  If it screams, it’s human.
3.  Bandages and costumes can hide zombies too.
4.  There’s always another way in or out.
5.  Your voice is your best defense against wrongful death.
6.  Carry lots of bandages.
7.  A lighter and an aerosol can makes a good disinfectant.
8.  No matter what you meant to each other in life, to the zombie you’re lunch.
9.  Talk to strangers. Pray they answer back.
10. Zombies don’t sleep
11. Bystanders are still worth saving. Usually.
12. A costume hides many scars.
13. When in doubt, burn again.
14. There are no beauty contests anymore.
15. A sword can be deadlier than a bullet.
16. Always count your ammo.
17. Make each shot count.
18. Staying at similar hotels saves on defense planning.
19. Different enclave, different style.
20. Small caliber bullets suck.
21. Zombies don’t smile.
22. Good leaders don’t piss off the entire enclave at once.
23. Super Zombies have weaknesses, but they’re still zombies.
24. If an easy-to-reach big box still has a lot of stock, then there has to be a reason.
25. Super-villains may play hero because they have to, but they’re still villains.
26. The Code is what separates us from the zombies.
27. Bystanders run; we enable them to.
28. If you go toe-to-toe with a Super Zombie, we’ll toast your courage later.
29. Just because they’re human doesn’t make them friends.
30. Everyone changed after the Z-Day.
31. Faith is great; a loaded shotgun is safer.
32. High turnover rates mean anyone can be replaced.
33. Always keep something flammable on you.
34. Zombies don’t pat themselves down when they burn.
35. Teamwork ensures survival; Grandstanding ensures a memorable death.
36. If it seems too good to be true, it’s probably full of zombies.
37. If you can’t burn it off, cut it off.
